Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! About IIT Jodhpur Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was established in 2008, to foster technology education and research in India. The Institute is committed to technological thought and action to benefit the economic development of India. Scholarship in teaching and learning; Scholarship in research and creative accomplishments; and relevance to Industry are three driving forces for us at IIT Jodhpur. IIT Jodhpur functions from its sprawling residential Permanent Campus of 852 acres on National Highway 65, north-northwest of Jodhpur towards Nagaur. This campus is meticulously planned and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics simple, but deep. Discover More about IITJ Highlight View All Highlights Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method Structure and exfoliation mechanism of two-dimensional boron nanosheets 2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nano architectonics and Recent Progresses MBA Admission 2026-28: CAT Cut-off for the Personal Interview MBA 202628 Admissions date extended! Extension Notice for the post of Registrar, Advt. No: 62. 155 KB Advertisement for the post of Registrar on Tenure Deputation , IIT Jodhpur Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate s Law Firm s at IIT Jodhpur 333 KB Latest News View All News Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal Impact Factor 13 Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry RSC Announcement View All Announcements 1 Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate s Law Firm s at IIT Jodhpur 2 List of Selected Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II 3 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II December 2025 Event View All Events Mar National Safety Week, 07-08 March 2026 Feb Hands-On Workshop on Recent Trends in Generative AI Models and Their Applications Mar Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based... Key Functionaries Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar Chairman, BoG Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal Director Student Life at IIT Jodhpur Student life at IIT Jodhpur is vibrant and enriching, offering a perfect blend of academic learning and extracurricular activities. With a focus on holistic development, the institute provides numerous opportunities for students to explore their interests and talents beyond the classroom. The institute also emphasizes the importance of community service and social responsibility, encouraging students to engage in various outreach programs and initiatives that benefit society. Discover More about Student Life at IITJ Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Academic Programs Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Academic Programs The Institute offers the following Academic Programs: Bachelor of Technology Programs Master of Science Programs Master of Technology Programs Doctor of Philosophy Programs MS by Research Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Circulars Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Circulars Note: Below mentioned link will open on Intranet only Circular 1 Continuation of Assistantship to Ph.D. students till Thesis Defense Circular 2 Change in Thesis Submission policy for old Ph.D. students registered before July 2019 Circular 3 Extension of one month for M.Sc. and M.Tech. students for Project Thesis work Circular 4 Online submission of Final Thesis after defense for M.Sc. and M.Tech. students Circular 5 Publication requirement for submission of Ph.D. Thesis Circular 6 Registration kept alive for M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. Students Circular 7 Conducting Comprehensive Examination andSOTA of the Student Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D. Students registered from July 2019 onwards Circular 8 Rules and Regulations for conduct and Evaluation of M.Tech. M.Sc. Project joined on or after July 2019 Circular 9 Comprehensive,SOTA and Qualifier requirements for Part time Ph.D. and M.Tech.- Ph.D. Students registered from July 2019 onwards Circular 10 Rules and Regulations for conduct and Evaluation of M.Tech. M.Sc. Project joined on or after July 2019 Circular 11 Format and Guidelines for submission of Project Report for M.Tech. M.Tech.-Ph.D. M.Sc. M.Sc.-M.Tech. Circular 12 Format for submission of Research Proposal for Ph.D. students registered from July 2019 onwards Circular 13 Timeline for Evaluation of M.Sc. and M.Tech. Projects for Trimester 3 AY 2020-21 Circular 14 Evaluation of M.Sc. M.Tech. and M.Sc.-M.Tech. Projects for Trimester 3 AY 2020-21 Circular 15 Submission of Grades for Research Proposal in respect of Ph.D. students registered from July 2019 onwards Circular 16 Guideline for performance improvement of credits earned by Ph.D. students enrolled from July 2019 Circular 17 Academics schedule and plan for Teaching and Evaluation Circular 18 Guidelines for Design and Practical Experience Credits Circular 19 Engineering science options for B.Tech. students joined post July 2020 Circular 20 Extension for completion of qualifier requirements Ph.D. students registered in July 2019 Circular 23 Extension for completion of qualifier requirements Ph.D. students registered in December 2019 Circular 24 Branch Change criteria for B.Tech. in X Engineering science post 2nd year Circular 25 Amendments in credits requirements, Eligibility Criteria for opting, Minimum Credit requirements, Credit requirements Circular 26 Summary of Specialization and Dual degree leading to MTech MBA offered by Departments Schools IDRPs Circular 27 Regulations for Joint Programmes in Medical Technologies Circular 28 Teaching Assistantship TA guidelines for UG students Circular 29 Guideline for B.Tech. in Engineering Science Programmes Circular 30 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting APM Circular 31 4-year B.Tech. in X Engineering Science for B.Tech. students joined post July 2020 Circular 32 Announcement of State of the Art Seminar by the Departments Schools IDRP Centers Circular 33 IPR Declaration by Co-supervisor External supervisor Circular 34 Regarding SOTA Research Proposal deadline for Ph.D. students registered during Trimester II and Trimester III of AY 2020-21 Circular 35 Implementation of fine on late registration post pandemic Circular 36 Guidelines for proposing new courses for the approval of the Senate Circular 37 Guidelines for Teaching Assistantship Allotments Circular 38 Norms for engagement of Guest Faculty Member s Circular 39 Degree Garde Point Average DGPA for Ph.D. Programme continuation for the students enrolled from July 2019 onwards Circular No. IITJ DoAA 2025-26 63 2271 Discontinuation of Branch Change from Academic Year 202627 in UG Programs Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Academic Calendar Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Academic Calendar Academic Calendar BS BSc Academic Year 20252026 Download file Academic Calendar for Academic Year 202526 Download file Academic Calendar BS BSC Download file Academic Calendar PG-Certificate PG Diploma MBA-Tech Trimester Model AY 2025-26 Download file Academic Calendar PG-Certificate in Machine Learning and Artificial AY 2024-25 Download file Academic Calendar: Academic Year Summer Term 2024-25 Download file Academic Calendar: Academic Year 2024-25 Download file Academic Calendar PG-Certificate PG Diploma MBA-Tech Trimester Model Download file Academic Calendar PG Certification in ML AI AY 2024 -25 Download file Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Academic Regulations Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Academic Regulations Old Regulation Rules Regulations For Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards Download file Amendment Revised Norms for Continuation of Program Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech. M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards Download file Academic Regulations Approved in July 2019 Academic Regulations Academic Regulations 2. Academic Session 2.1 Academic Calendar 3. Registration 3.1 Provisional Registration 3.2 Late Registration 3.3 Adding and Dropping of Courses 3.4 Withdrawing from a course 3.5 Cancellation of Semester Registration 3.6 Summer Course Registration 4. Teaching and Evaluation 4.1 Teaching 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction 4.1.2 Course Structure 4.1.3 Approval of Courses 4.1.4 List of Courses 4.1.5 Categories of Courses 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements 4.2 Evaluation 5. Grading System 5.1 Letter Grades 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results 5.3 Grade Point Averages 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average 6. Grade Card and Transcript 7. Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases 8. Make-up Examinations Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes 9. Undergraduate Programs 10. Undergraduate Admissions 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes 10.2 Reservation Policy 10.3 Student Exchange Programme 10.4 Visiting Students 10.5 Cancellation of Admission 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements 11. Curriculum and Academic Requirements 11.1 Academic Load Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes 11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes 12. UG Registration 12.1 Summer Courses 12.2 Limits on Registration 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme 13. Evaluation of Special UG only courses 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee DUGC 13.3 Engineering Innovation 13.4 Design Project Evaluation 13.5 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project 13.6 Entrepreneurship Project 14. Termination 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program 14.2 Appeal against Termination 15. Leave Rules 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation 15.2 Short Leave 15.3 Semester Withdrawal 15.4 Academic Leave 16. Branch Change 17. Requirements 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 17.2 Academic 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO 17.6 Award of Degrees 18. Amendments Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes 19. Postgraduate Programmes 20. Postgraduate admissions 20.1 Categories of Admission 20.2 Eligibility for Admission 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students 20.4 Reservation Policy 21 PG Registration 21.1 Limits on Registration 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time External Ph.D. Programme 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program 21.6 Course Registration 22 Academic Requirements 22.1 Academic Load Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programme 22.2 Course categories for Masters programmes 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students 22.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students Executive M.Tech. 22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. M.Tech. Dual Degree 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students 22.8 Academic Performance Requirements 23. Leave Rules 23.1 Leave 23.2 Other Leaves 23.3 Semester Withdrawa 23.4 Academic Leave 24. Financial Assistance 24.1 M.Sc. Program 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program 24.3 M.Tech. Program 24.4 Executive M Tech Program 24.5 M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Program 24.6 Ph.D. Program 25. Rules and Regulations For M.Tech. M.Sc. Project 26 Rules and Regulations for Ph.D. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program 26.1 Thesis Supervisor s 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor 26.3 Student Research Committee SRC 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting APM 26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program 26.8 Cancellation of Registration 26.9 Synopsis 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation 27. Graduation Requirements 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement 27.2 Academic 27.3 No Dues Clearance 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 27.5 Award of Degrees 28. AMENDMENTS Academic Regulations Back to index 1. Introduction Back to index Academic programmes at Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur are designed to develop thehighest calibre human resource capable of understanding the new patterns of knowledgecreation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities,social sciences and engineering. IIT Jodhpur aims to produce quality professionals who would beable to address profound and wide-ranging societal challenges of the 21st century such asenergy, food, water, housing, mobility, and health. In addition to imparting scientificknowledge, IIT Jodhpur endeavours to inculcate human qualities of courage, integrity, fairness,humility and team effort among its graduates through curricular, co-curricular andextra-curricular activities on campus. The undergraduate academic programmes focus on developing a temper for the life longprocess of learning, creative thinking and exploring. The postgraduate academic programmesfocus on developing a deep understanding of the subject of study coupled with creativeinquisitiveness and the ability to address and solve new problems with a free and objectiveMind. The academic programmes are based on three tenets of 1 semester system, 2 CreditSystem and 3 Relative Grading. These academic programmes are administered by a dulyconstituted Academic Committee AC through the office of Academics. The AC will be chairedby Dean Academics . In the absence of Dean Academics , Associate Dean Academics-PG Associate Dean Academics- UG will discharge the responsibilities of Dean Academics .The Senate of the Institute has formulated a set of guidelines and rules to ensure a highstandard of performance as well as for smooth functioning of the academic programmes. Withinthis broad set of guidelines, subject to the approval of Senate, different programmes caninclude additional academic requirements as deemed necessary for that programme. Theseacademic programmes are continuously monitored by the Senate and make appropriatemodifications improvements as and when necessary. 2. Academic Session Back to index The academic session normally runs from the end of July in one year to the middle of July in the next year. The academic session is divided into three parts: two regular semesters and a summer term as per the following timelines: Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July. Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester is at least 70. 2.1 Academic Calendar Back to index The academic calendar gives the exact dates of all important events during the Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, the commencement of classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, examinations, submission of grades, project evaluation, declaration of results, mid-semester recess, and vacation. This calendar is approved by the Senate. 3. Registration Back to index Students are required to register for prescribed credits as per the programme, on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. If the student does not register by the date of registration, she he can register by paying the fine and register before the date of late registration. 3.1 Provisional Registration A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final results of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionally on submission of a certificate from her his last Institute stating that she he has appeared in the final examination of the qualifying degree. The student is required to submit documents of having passed the qualifying examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the registration to be regularized. 3.2 Late Registration If the student does not register by the date of late registration as mentioned in the Academic Calendar, he she will be deregistered. The appeal against deregistration may be made to Chairman, Senate through Dean Academics. Chairman Senate may permit the continuation of registration on payment of an appropriate fine. 3.3 Adding and Dropping of Courses A student may add or drop course s with approval ofthe Faculty advisor till the last date of registration. 3.4 Withdrawing from a Course After the last date of add-drop, a student will have theoption of withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be typically withinfour weeks from the beginning of the Semester as specified in the academic calendar. Thewithdrawn course will be mentioned in the Students grade card with a letter grade W. 3.5 Cancellation of Semester Registration Absence for a period of four or more weeksDuring a semester shall result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from allthe courses in that semester. 3.6 Summer Course Registration A department may offer summer courses to enable thestudents to clear their backlog courses and or regular credit courses. A course will run duringsummer provided a faculty member s is available for running the course. The course is offeredon approval of the Dean. 4. Teaching and Evaluation Back to index 4.1 Teaching Back to index 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction The medium of instruction is English. All courses have associated credits. Credits of a course is based on the number of contact hours for lectures, tutorials, and practicals A student on successful completion of the course with a passing grade will earn equivalent number of credits. Based on required academic maturity level of students for attending a course, a course is assigned a level. A course can consist of independent components which can be completed independently. These components are called fractals. A course is identified by a unique number. Following tables define all parameters related to course numbering scheme. Table 4.1 Course Code Description Course Code M E L 1 X X 1 Descriptions Offering Department IDRP Course Type Level of Courses Unique Identification Number Indicates Fractal Categories See Table 4.2 See Table 4.3 See Table 4.4 This code will be given centrally by the office of academics 0: Regular, 1: Fractal-1, 2: Fractal-2, 3: Fractal-3 Note: Examples of course codes Course Title L-T-P Course Code Regular Course Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 MEL1XX0 Fractal Course Robotics 3-0-2 MEL7XX0 Fractal 1: Robot Modelling 1-0-0 MEL7XX1 Fractal 2: Motion Planning and Programming MEL7XX2 Fractal 3: Robot Control MEL7XX3 Table 4.2 Departmental Code S. N. Type Department Platform Office Department 1 ME Mechanical Engineering 2 CS Computer Science and Engineering 3 EE Electrical Engineering 4 CI Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 5 CH Chemical Engineering 6 BB Bioscience and Bioengineering 7 MT Metallurgical Materials Engineering 8 CY Chemistry 9 MA Mathematics 10 PH Physics 11 HS Humanities and Social Science Interdisciplinary Research Platforms IDRPs 12 DH Digital Humanities 13 SS Space Science and Technology 14 IO Internet of Things and Applications 15 AV Autonomous unmanned vehicles AUV 16 QC Quantum Information and Computation 17 CG Cognitive Science 18 SH Smart Healthcare Others 19 OA Office of Academics 20 OS Office of Students Table 4.3 Types of Courses S. N. Course Type Category 1 L Lecture courses other than lecture hours, these courses can have Tutorial and Practical hours, e.g. L-T-P Structures 3-0-0, 3-1-2, 3-0-2, 2-0-0, etc. 2 P Practical Practice based courses where performance is evaluated primarily on the basis of practice, practical or laboratory work with LTP structures such as 0-0-3, 0-0-4, 1-0-3, 0-1-3, etc. 3 D Project based courses e.g. Major, Minor, Mini Projects 4 N Non-graded core component 5 T Thesis 6 Q Seminar Courses 7 S Independent Study 8 R Product Realization 9 E Engineering Design Graded and Non-Graded Table 4.4 Level of Courses, category and credit requirements S. N. Level Category Credit Requirements 1 100.0 Courses for B.Tech. Programmes B.Tech. Cr . .0 B.Tech. Cr .0 B.Tech. Cr .0 Preparatory Courses of M.Sc. and M.Tech. Programmes NOT open to B.Tech. and B.Tech. M.Tech. Dual Degree M.Tech. Cr 0 M. Sc. Cr .0 Courses for M.Sc. programmes B.Tech. Cr 75 M.Sc. Cr 0 M.Tech. Cr .0 Courses for M.Tech. programmes B.Tech. Cr 100 M.Sc. Cr 30 M.Tech. Cr 0 Ph.D. Cr 0 Advanced courses for M.Sc. 8 800.0 Advanced courses for M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes, An 800 level course should have 700 level course as a pre-requisite M.Tech. Cr 14 Ph.D. Cr .1.3 Approval of Courses The Senate approves each course along with its weight in terms of credits. Only the approved courses may be offered during any semester summer term. 4.1.4 List of Courses The list of courses to be offered in a Program is finalized before the beginning of the semester, by the Department hosting that Program. 4.1.5 Categories of Courses Courses offered can be from one of the following categories: Regular Course: A regular course has 14 hours of class room engagement per one credit. A regular course can be under elective or core compulsory categories.Elective courses of 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or 600, level will run if a minimum of 10 students register for the course. A 700 or 800 level elective course can run with a minimum of 5 registered students. A course not running as a regular course may be offered as a self-study course as per the following section. Self Study Course A self-study course will be from the list of courses approved by Senate. The main features of a self-study course are as follows:A student may be allowed to register for an elective course as a self-study course provided that the course is not running in that semester as a regular course or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. A student may also be permitted to register for a core or program compulsory course in self-study mode provided he she has failed in it earlier and the course is not being offered as a regular course during that semester or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. Students should apply for a self-study course with the appropriate recommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC DRC interdisciplinary program committee. The final sanction of a self-study course to a student is made by the Dean Academics .Formal classroom engagement may not be there for a self-study course but laboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integral part of the course.The Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the award of letter grade at the end of the semester.A self-study course will appear with the approved course title on the transcript. Independent Study Course Independent study enables a student to pursue course credit on an academic topic of interestunder the supervision of a faculty member. The term independent does not mean not involvingan Instructor but independent of regular class engagement. Self-disciplined and having a senseof own direction and goals are fundamental requirements of an Independent Study course. Astudent having CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 can opt for Independent Study courses with therecommendation of Supervising Professor. The main features of an independent-study courseare as follows: A student may be permitted to register for a topic of interest as an independent-studycourse not exceeding 3 credits in self-study mode at most once during the program.Such independent study course will be counted toward open elective requirements of theprogram and will appear with the title Independent Study on the transcript. Students should apply for an independent study course with the appropriaterecommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC DRC IRC. The final sanction of anindependent-study course to a student is made by the Dean Academics . Normally, no formal lectures will be held for an Independent Study course butlaboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integralpart of the course. 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses Each course is conducted by the Instructor with the assistance of the required number of tutors, as needed. The Instructor is responsible for conducting the course, evaluating the performance of students, awarding the grades at the end of the semester, and transmitting the grades as per Subsection 5.2. A course approved by the senate of IIT Jodhpur can be conducted through either i direct contact ii synchronized remote contact iii guided study mode or combination of these. In direct contact mode, coordinator or instructor will have a face to face physical interaction with the students. Synchronized remote contact mode would require the faculty and or the students to be concurrently connected to the class-room interaction via electronic conferencing involving both audio and video communication. However, there has to be direct interaction between faculty and students for limited hours typically 25 of the stipulated contact hours. In guided study mode, a faculty would guide a single or a group of students to take up study of an approved course via self-learning and discussion-oriented contact sessions. This mode can be also adopted for enabling a student to take up study of a new course, not yet approved by the senate, under supervision of a faculty. All formal evaluation component applicable to courses being run through any one of the above-mentioned modes will be conducted under direct physical supervision of a faculty. All laboratory component of a course requiring use of specialized facility will be conducted through direct contact. The student shall have access to his her answer paper s of all the written examinations conducted for a given course, which may be shown to him her by the Instructor s concerned. The instructor must keep all evaluation records in his custody at least for the next six months. 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments The instructors and tutors for all courses to be offered during the semester are allocated by the Head of the Department hosting the Program. When faculty members of other Departments are also required to participate in teaching a particular course, the allocation shall be done in consultation with the Head of that Department. 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribed academic load requirement with the permission of the Instructor of the course being audited and the Faculty Advisor. Under this arrangement, the course will be listed in the Grade Card of the student. 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless the student takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to attend every lecture, tutorial, or lab session. The attendance records must be made available to the student after every lecture. Even if the students attendance falls below 75 , the student will be allowed to appear for the exams. Students not meeting the attendance criterion of 75 will be required to score at least C grade to pass a course. These students would be awarded F grade if their marks are lower than the cut-off for C grade in a course. 4.2 Evaluation Back to index The performance of students in a course is evaluated continuously, using their interaction in the classroom, and performances in examinations, the laboratory work if any , and term-papers and projects. The performance of students in a course is evaluated through examinations and on a continuous basis. The Senate will decide from time to time on the system of tests and examinations in each subject in each semester.Minor 1, Minor 2 and Major examinations are mandatory components of the evaluation of a regular 14-week long lecture course. The minor examinations shall be of 60 minutes duration and the major examination of 120 minutes. Fractal courses less than 3 credits must have at least one examination.The total weightage of examination component three examinations for a 14 week long course shall be between 40 to 60 of the total weightage of evaluation measure.Evaluation policy has to be known from the first day of the class.The continuous evaluation may include but not limited to interaction in the classroom, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. 5. Grading System Back to index 5.1 Letter Grades Back to index 5.1 Letter Grades At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter grade in each course by the Instructor offering the course considering the performance of the student during the semester with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. It is proposed that ten regular letter grades, namely A , A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, E and F shall be awarded in each course. Each letter grade is associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale shown in Table 5.1. In addition, there are four special letter grades, namely, I, S, X and U, which stand for Incomplete, Satisfactory, Thesis Continuation and Unsatisfactory, respectively. The faculty member shall upload grade on the portal as per the stipulated time schedule. Table 5.1 Letter grade and its equivalent grade points S.N. Letter Grade Grade Points Comment 1 A 10 Exceptional 2 A 10 Outstanding 3 A- 9 Excellent 4 B 8 Very Good 5 B- 7 Good 6 C 6 Average 7 C- 5 Below Average 8 D 4 Marginal 9 E 2 Poor 10 F 0 Fail 11 I Incomplete 12 S Satisfactory in Course 13 X Thesis Continuation 14 U Unsatisfactory 15 W Withdrawn A detailed description of some of the grades is given below: S.N. Grades Description 1 A A grade has the same grade point as A grade. The grade A indicates exceptional performance and is awarded only in the Course s in which the number of registered students is more than 50. It should not exceed 2 of the total strength of the particular theory or lab course. The grade A is not awarded for projects seminars. 2 E E Grade will be awarded to a student who has scored marks less than the cutoff marks for D Grade and has met the attendance criterion of the institute. Students who obtain an E Grade will be eligible to appear in an additional examination. If they perform satisfactorily, they become eligible for getting the E grade converted to a D Grade, otherwise, they will continue to have E Grade. The student will have only one chance to appear for the additional examination for an E Grade. The additional examination will be conducted within the first week of the next semester. The date of additional examination of Institute core courses for undergraduate students centrally notified, while for all other courses, the date would be announced by the respective course coordinators. A student can appear for a maximum of three such additional tests in a given semester. If a student cannot appear for the test due to any reason s , he she will not get any additional chance. If a student with E grade in a course does not pass the course through the additional test, or obtains an F grade in the course, he she has to repeat the course if it is a core course. In case the course is an elective, the student may take the same course again or any other course. E and F Grades are not counted in the calculation of the CGPA; however, these are taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA. 3 I An I grade is temporarily awarded to a student on his her request to denote incomplete performance in a course on approval of instructor. An I grade is awarded in case missing an evaluation component due to absence on medical grounds or other special circumstances. Requests for I grade should be made at the earliest but not later than the last day of major tests. All evaluation requirements for such students in the corresponding course s should be completed before the end of the first week of the next semester. Upon completion of all course requirements, the I grade is converted to a regular grade. 4 S This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in non-graded and Audit courses. If the stipulated requirements are not fulfilled, the unsatisfactory U grade is awarded. The grades obtained in an audit course are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 5 X This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in thesis for continuation 6 U This grade is awarded to a student with unsatisfactory performance in thesis, audit or non-graded courses. 7 W This grade is awarded to a student who has opted to withdraw from a course. Withdrawal from a course is permitted until the date specified in the Academics Calendar. 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results Back to index The following procedure would be followed for declaration of results and time line would be as per Academic Calendar.Evaluation scheme to be displayed by instructors at the start of a semester:Display of answer sheets and all scores by instructors.Finalization of grades by instructorsGrade moderation by department institute level committee for department institute wide coursesRecommendation of grades by the Head of the Department after scrutiny of grades by a moderation committeeDisplay of grades by InstructorsGrade correction, if any, within 48 hours of display of grades after approval of the head of the departmentApproval of Grade by the Dean UG PG Associate Dean UG PGs Finalization of results by the Dean UG PG Associate Dean UG PG Approval of results by the Chairman SenateResults once approved cannot be changed under any circumstance. In exceptional cases, the Student may appeal to the Chairman, Senate for reconsideration, with formal justification. 5.3 Grade Point Averages Back to index 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average The Semester Grade Point Average SGPA is a weighted average of the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by her him and reflects her his academic performance in the respective semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades earned by a student in N courses registered during a semester are G1, G2, GN, and the corresponding credits C1, C2, CN, then the SGPA is given by the following formula: The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses and courses in which S X grade is awarded, registered in a particular semester. 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average The Cumulative Grade Point Average CGPA indicates the overall academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to the latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed similarly as the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades A , A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D , except audit courses and courses in which S X grade is awarded, obtained in all completed semesters. The SGPA and CGPA calculation is based on credits earned completed at IIT Jodhpur alone. 6. Grade Card and Transcript Back to index A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each semester, and a Transcript at the end of the Programme. IIT Jodhpur Grade Card and Transcript will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits without grades earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester, if applicable. 7. Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases Back to index The rules and regulations procedures and requirements stated in this manual, other than those related to Admissions to the academic programmes, may be waived in special circumstances by the AC on the recommendation of the Department with the approval of Chairman, Senate. All such exceptions have to be reported to the Senate. 8. Make-up Examinations Back to index A student who has missed minor s or the major examination due to genuine reasons like illness etc. may be permitted to write a make-up examination for the missed components. The student should make an application to the Dean Academics through the course instructor within ten days from the date of the examination missed, explaining the reasons for their absence. Applications received after this period need not be entertained. The permission to take a make-up examination will be given under exceptional circumstances such as admission to a hospital due to illness. A student needs to produce the necessary document subject to one of the following categories: Students residing in the Hostels should produce a Medical Certificate issued by the Medical Officer of the Institute that he she was admitted in the Hospital during the period of the missed quiz exam.Students residing in the Hostels and taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain written permission from the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital before they proceed for such consultation.Students residing in the hostels but taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain an endorsement on the certificate of treatment by the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital.A student staying outside the Campus permanently temporarily must produce a medical certificate from the Registered Medical Practitioner and the same should be duly endorsed by the parent guardian. A slot- wise make-up examination for major will be held during the makeup supplementary week as per Academic Calendar of the subsequent semester for those who are permitted to take the make-up examination. A student who misses this make-up examination will not normally be given another make-up examination. However, in exceptional cases of prolonged illness resulting in the student missing a make-up examination, the Chairman of the Senate, in consultation with the Dean of Academics may permit the student to appear for make-up examination any day before the end of the first week of the next semester. Under no circumstances prorating can be done for the missed examinations or attendance. Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes Back to index 9. Undergraduate Programs Back to index IIT Jodhpur currently offers Bachelor of Technology B. Tech. programs, and capability linked opportunities for undergraduate students through Minor Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M.Tech. in Minor Interdisciplinary Area, Department Area Specialization leading to M.Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M.Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Product Realization through Industrial Translation . 10. Undergraduate Admissions Back to index 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes Back to index 10.1.1 General Admissions Admissions to the B.Tech. Programmes are made once a year in July through the all-India level Joint Entrance Examination JEE conducted by IITs. The procedures and other requirements for admission are specified in the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year. 10.1.2 Cultural Exchange Programmes Admissions are also offered to foreign nationals under the Cultural Exchange Fellowship Program of the Government of India, administered by Indian Council of Cultural Relations ICCR , New Delhi. Persons interested in these Programs are required to apply through the Indian High Commission Embassy in their respective countries. 10.1.3 Change Enhancement of Program A student already admitted to a B.Tech. programme may switch to another department through branch change. A student can enhance his her programme to a Minor Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Minor Interdisciplinary Area, Major Department Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M. Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Product Realization through Industrial Translation . The rules governing these changes are given in Section 18 branch change and Section 11.2 for all others . 10.2 Reservation Policy Back to index The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 10.3 Student Exchange Programme Back to index Student Exchange Program provides for a one two-semester visit by students between the two academic institutions on a reciprocal basis. The visiting student must be a full-time student enrolled in a degree program in their Home Institution. The exchange program is open to full-time undergraduate and graduate students of each Home Institution. It will be executed as per the pre-approved arrangement including an MoU between the institutions. Selection of students under such program will be made by the DUGC after assessing the preparedness of students to meet the requirements of the planned coursework research at the Host Institution and the relevance of the planned coursework research to the enrolled degree program. A visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities as per pre-approved arrangement including an MoU . Under exchange program, a student of IIT Jodhpur can register at another academic institution in India or abroad with the expectation of credit transfer up to 20 credits per semester in lieu of the course work or research work through a pre-approved arrangement including an MoU. On return, the student may apply to DUGC for waiver of credits from her his program requirements which s he thinks are equivalent to the courses successfully completed at the visited academic institution as an exchange student. With the application, the student must submit an official transcript of the grades obtained by her him at the visited academic institution as an exchange student and other documents material that the concerned DUGC may require for evaluation. The DUGC will determine, by whatever means it deems fit, the equivalent credits requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in her his programme at IIT Jodhpur. DUGC will submit its recommendations to course equivalence committee for its approval. Moreover, The credits grades indicated in the grade sheet obtained from the academic institution in which the student has completed the courses should be used by the student as part of his her transcripts. IIT Jodhpur transcripts will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits without grades earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester. The CGPA calculation based on credits earned completed at IIT Jodhpur alone is to be considered for award of prizes. Academic Regulations 10.4 Visiting Students Back to index A visiting student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially permitted by that institute or university to complete part of his her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. A person can be admitted as a visiting student on a duly sponsored application to the Dean Academics . A visiting student may be admitted for a maximum period of one year. A visiting student will be required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, Program, and nationality. Students so admitted also will be governed by all rules, regulations, and discipline applicable to regular students of the Institute. 10.5 Cancellation of Admission Back to index Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any Program shall submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional certificates, etc. of the qualifying examination and other documents by the last date specified for the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student, who fails to submit the prescribed documents by the specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement s . Also, the Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission at any later time, if it is found that the student had provided some false information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission. 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements Back to index Admission to any undergraduate Program requires that the applicant be eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and pay the prescribed fees. The Senate should formally approve all admissions to the Undergraduate Programmes. 11. Curriculum and Academic Requirements Back to index 11.1 Academic Load Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes Back to index The total credits for a course is calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours L-T-P assigned as given in Table 11.1. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours on an average to be spend by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 11.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours Total Credits TC TH 3 Contact Hours CH Beyond ContactHours BCH TotalHours TH 1 hour of Lecture hour of Tutorial hour of Lab .5 1.5 0.5 0. hour of Project .2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students Back to index Major Department Specialization Interdisciplinary Specialization Minor B.Tech. M.Tech. Dual Degree 11.2.1 Eligibility Criteria for opting a Major Department Specialization, Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization A student should have earned minimum 100 credits with the CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 at the end on 6th semester to opt for capability linked opportunity. b B.Tech. M.Tech. Dual Degree in chosen specialization Students who have already opted for Major Department Specialization, Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization can opt for dual-degree Programme from the eighth semester provided they have earned minimum 134 Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end of the 7th semester. 11.2.2 Minimum Credit requirements a Major Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor A student needs to complete a total of 20 Credits in the Major Department Specialization or Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization area offered. 10 Credits out of 20 can be taken up as a part of Open electives whereas the student is required to opt for an additional 10 credits in the form of course overload. This will be indicated on the degree. Registration for Additional Courses for Major Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor Starting from the sixth semester, students having earned 80 credits with CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 are permitted to take up to 4 extra Credits as part of their normal load, which forms part of her his additional learning component, every semester in addition to the prescribed courses for their degree. b B.Tech. M.Tech. Dual Degree in chosen specialization A student needs to complete a total of 56 Credits in the Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary area offered. It will include credits earned for Major Department or Minor Interdisciplinary area Specialization excluding the project credits. 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes Back to index Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes are given in the table below: Course Categories and Academic requirements Table 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements S.N. Course Type Course Category B.Tech.Regular B.Tech.with Specialization Dual Degree 1 Institute Core I Engineering IE 34.0 34.0 34.0 Science IS 16.0 16.0 16.0 Humanities IH 12.0 12.0 12. Programme Linked L Science LS 7.0 7.0 7. Programme Core P Programme Compulsory PC 50.0 50.0 50.0 Programme Electives PE 18.0 18.0 18.0 B.Tech. Project PP 3.0 3.0 3. Open O Electives OE 10.0 0.0 0. Specialization Major Minor Department Interdisciplinary S Compulsory SC 0.0 8.0 8.0 Elective SE 0.0 12.0 12 6 M.Tech. M in Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary Area Compulsory MC 0.0 0.0 9 Electives ME 0.0 0.0 5 Project MP 0.0 0.0 16 Open Electives MO 0.0 0.0 6 Total Graded 150.0 160. Non-Graded N Humanities NH 6.0 6.0 6.0 Engineering NE 3.0 3.0 3.0 Design Practical Experience ND 6.0 6.0 6. .0 175.0 211 Must not include any project course 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program Back to index The maximum duration for the completion B.Tech. Programs shall be 14 registered semesters. 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements Back to index The minimum requirements on credits earned for continuation in a B. Tech. Programme at the end of the second registered semester is specified in the following table: Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester Description Minimum number of credits to be earned GEN OBC GEN-EWS SC ST PD Minimum for Continuation 18 14 If a student does not meet the criterion specified in Table 11.3, he she may opt to restart the programme or else their registration will be terminated. The restart will be permitted only once. If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then the credits earned and semesters registered till that point will not be counted towards the graduation requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript. 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes Back to index The students of dual-degree programmes will be considered for award of institute research teaching assistantship if they have earned 150 credits by the end of the eighth semester. Only those students who have either qualified GATE or have a CGPA more than 8.0 will be eligible for this assistantship. The assistantship will be provided for a maximum period of 14 months beginning from the summer semester following the eighth semester, provided the student is registered for M.Tech. Major Project in that semester. A student availing assistantship will be required to provide 8 hours of assistance per week besides his her normal academic work. For continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5. A student receiving assistantship will be eligible for a total of 30 days leave during the 14-month period. He she will not be entitled to mid-semester breaks, winter and summer vacations. 12. UG Registration Back to index 12.1 Summer Courses Back to index Students can register for courses during summer up to a maximum of Eight Credits on payment of registration fee at prescribed rates. The summer term is not a regular semester and only academically deficient students who have low CGPA and or fewer credits than advised by the curriculum till that point in the programme , Major students, Minor students, and such students who are short of maximum Eight Credits to complete all graduation requirements may register during this period. For core courses, only students with failed backlog may be considered for summer registration. In case any vacancies are left in the courses being offered during the summer term once the requirements of the above categories of students are fulfilled, other students may register for these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance. The total number of contact hours for the courses remains the same as that during the regular semesters, and therefore the courses run at an accelerated pace. The evaluation and grading patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters. 12.2 Limits on Registration Back to index An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester.The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25.An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits per semester for independent-study or self-study course 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load Back to index Under-load: Students who are identified as academically deficient on academic probation may register for a maximum of 16 credits. Over-load: Overloading may be allowed only for students who are not on academic probation and satisfy one of the following criteria: Students are allowed to overload only when they need 70 or less additional credits to complete all the requirements of their programme. Beyond the second semester, any student with a CGPA of 7.5 or higher may be allowed to overload. 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme Back to index A B.Tech. Student having opted for major minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end of the seventh semester and fulfilling requirements mentioned earlier may be allowed to switch to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 13. Evaluation of Special UG only courses Back to index 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation Back to index DUGC will appoint a committee for B.Tech. Project evaluation. The committee will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project.DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students. The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee DUGC Back to index The DUGC will be constituted of all UG Faculty Advisors and Head of Department. The Head of Department will be the chairperson and one of the faculty advisors would be the convenor. 13.3 Engineering Innovation Back to index At the completion of an Engineering Innovation Project the student will submit a reportwhich will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner s by DUGC.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day ofthe class. 13.4 Design Project Evaluation Back to index At the completion of a project, the student will submit a project report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner s by DUGC.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project and S or U grade is awarded.Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day of the class. 13.5 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project Back to index Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor s .The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester.Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor s .The evaluation criterion would be same as Section 25. The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor s . The evaluation criterion would be the same as Section 25. 13.6 Entrepreneurship Project Back to index At the completion of Entrepreneurship, the student will submit a report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner s by Dean Academics-UG Associate Dean Academics-UG . The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. 14. Termination Back to index 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program Back to index A student may be terminated from the B.Tech. Programme by AC, if the student a Is absent without authorized leave of absence for eight weeks or more in a semester; OR b Fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a bonafide reason; OR c Violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc. as confirmed by a Committee constituted for the purpose; OR d Does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within the maximum duration of the program; OR e Is on academic probation for two consecutive semesters. 14.2 Appeal against Termination Back to index A student, who is terminated from the B.Tech. Program can appeal to the Chairman, Senate, for reconsideration. While making such an appeal, the student is expected to give reasons for poor academic performance and or why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the Senate will not entertain any further appeal for review, unless substantial additional information is brought to its notice. 15. Leave Rules Back to index Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DUGC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DUGC. 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation Back to index Undergraduate students are entitled to avail of mid-semester recess and vacation as specified in the Academic Calendar. 15.2 Short Leave Back to index A student may be granted leave of absence during the semester for a maximum of 10 days on medical grounds, and for 5 days for any other valid reason. 15.3 Semester Withdrawal Back to index It may be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. DUGC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 15.4 Academic Leave Back to index To help students broaden their horizons and gain course work experience, she he may be permitted to proceed to other academic institutes Industry R D organization in India or abroad. Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as Fieldwork Experimental work training using specialized facility not available at IITJ Entrepreneurship initiative Product realization through industrial translation Exchange program as part of an exchange program with an academic institution in India or abroad Internship work All such requests must be evaluated and approved by DUGC before the leave is granted.A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one summer term and two semesters on academic leave.A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 20 credits per semester as certified by the DUGC and approved by the Course Equivalence Committee. 16. Branch Change Back to index The branch change of the student in another branch and engineering science is permitted after the completion of the 1st year after completing all academic requirements of the credits including non-graded courses. The eligibility criteria of the branch change is as follows: E1: The student must have completed all prescribed course credits for the previous semesters including the non-graded courses . E2: The student has no backlog. E3: No disciplinary Action has been imposed on the student. Table: Summary of branch change criteria for students in UG B.Tech. B.S. Programs After Sem Branch Enrolled Branch Applied CGPA Eligibility Lower Limit Upper Limit II Any Any CGPA 8.5 Others CGPA 7.5 For SC,ST, PWD E1 E2 E3 90 of current Strength 110 of Sanctioned Strength II Any ES CGPA 8 Others CGPA 7 For SC,ST, PWD E1 E2 E3 90 of current Strength 30 Note: 1. No Branch Change post second year onwards. 2. This will be applicable to UG Students admitted in academic year 2025-26. 3. If the calculated upper limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the upper limit for seats will be the lower rounded number floor operation . 4. If the calculated lower limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the lower limit for seats will be the higher rounded number ceiloperation . Discontinuation of Branch Change from Academic Year 202627 in UG Programs. 17. Requirements Back to index A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she he has met the conditions laid down in the following Clauses 17.1 to 17.4 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence Back to index Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Minimum Duration of Residence in semesters 1 B. Tech. including minor department interdisciplinary area specialization B. Tech. M.Tech. .2 Academic Back to index The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she he has earned the minimum credits as per Table 11.2 in Section 11.3 for all degrees. 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues Back to index The degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean Academics . 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action Back to index The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her him. 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO Back to index The student should have completed extra-curricular activity like performing arts, sports, National Cadet Corps, National Service Schemes, and National Sports Organisation for a period of at least two Semesters during their B.Tech. Program. 17.6 Award of Degrees Back to index 17.6.1 Provisional Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, can be provided a provisional certificate by the office of Dean Academics on the approval of Chairman, Senate. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.2 Degree Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors BOG for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.3 Withdrawal of Degree Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors withdrawal of a degree already awarded to the student. 18. Amendments Back to index Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify amend without notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to its B.Tech. Programs. Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes Back to index 19. Postgraduate Programmes Back to index The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur currently offers the following Postgraduate programmes. Master of Science M.Sc. Dual degree: M.Sc.-M.Tech Master of Technology M.Tech. Dual degree: M.Tech.-PhD. Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. 20. Postgraduate admissions Back to index The process of admission for all the programs offered by the Institute normally is underway during April-May for Semester 1 and during November-December for Semester 2. In addition, the department may process applications for admissions to PhD programs on a continuous basis and admit students as per the existing procedure. 20.1 Categories of Admission Back to index A candidate can be admitted in any one of the following categories Full-time regular Full-time sponsored Part-time External Executive However, all categories are not applicable for all PG Programs. Further, programmes can be offered in a combination of these modes like fully sponsored part-time program . i Full-time Regular In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. A student supported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular student. ii Full-time Sponsored In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. The candidate is sponsored either by his her employer or by self. A self-sponsored candidate must have two years of relevant industrial R D academic experience. iii Part-time A part-time student is a working professional who, while employed, attend regular classes as per the schedule of the Institute. The student must be employed in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOC from the employer for pursuing the programme at IIT Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limited number of credits as compared to a full-time regular student. iv External A student working in an industry R D establishment academic institution which is equipped with the necessary research and library facilities. The employer must relieve the student to stay in the campus to complete the minimum residency requirements. v Executive only for M. Tech. A professional who can carry out complete the programme requirement in An accelerated fashion minimum in 12 months , OR Accumulates credits as per convenience and petitions a degree in a maximum of 6 years. The part-time or full-time mode by attending courses offered in synchronized remote contact mode and limited direct interaction 20.2 Eligibility for Admission Back to index The eligibility conditions given below are the absolute minimum. Departments may prescribe any requirements over and above, subject to the approval of the Senate. The number of admissions that can be made to any program shall be decided by the Senate from time to time. Reservation of seats for various reserved categories shall be prescribed by the Board of Governors. 20.2.1 Admission to M. Sc. Program Regular The admission to the M.Sc. Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues. The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master JAM organized by IITs. The applicants having a bachelors degree in any relevant discipline 3- or 4-year program may be admitted based on written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category b must have a minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 OR a first-class as specified by the university institute. 20.2.2 Admission to M Sc M Tech Dual Degree Program Regular The admission to the M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master JAM organized by IITs. The applicants having a bachelors degree in any relevant discipline 3- or 4-year program may be admitted based on written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category b must have a minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 OR a first-class as specified by the university institute. 20.2.3 Admission to M Tech Program Regular The applicant must have bachelors degree in engineering or science 4 year program or a masters degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Sciences, Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Sciences or in a related field A minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 or a first-class as specified by the university institute. The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.4 Admission to MTech Program Executive Part-time External Sponsored The applicant must have bachelors degree in engineering or science 4-year program or a masters degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field. A minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 or a first-class as specified by the university institute. The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience after qualifying degree in industry R D laboratories Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. However, the credit accumulation for the program may start immediately after the qualifying degree. Petitioning for the degree can happen only 1 year after registration. The applicant must qualify the written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.5 Admission to M .Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Program Regular The applicant must have bachelors degree in engineering or science 4-year program or a masters degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field A minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 or a first-class as specified by the university institute. The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.6 Admission to Ph.D. Program Regular Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of any organization in India or abroad. The applicant must have a masters degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60 marks or at least 6.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN GEN-EWS OBC 55 for SC ST , The applicant must have MBBS with MD MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60 marks or at least 6.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN GEN-EWS OBC 55 for SC ST in bachelors degree, The applicant must have a bachelors degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70 marks or at least 7.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN OBC 65 for SC ST . 20.2.7 Admission under any special scheme like Quality Improvement Programme QIP , Defence Personnel The procedures and criteria for admission of these candidates can be decided with the approval of Chairman, Senate. 20.2.8. Admission of Indian Nationals Residing Abroad INRA and Foreign Nationals INRA candidates must have been residing abroad continuously for at least one year at the time of applying for admission. The applications of INRA and foreign nationals may be processed by the departments as and when they are received or according to any schedule convenient to the department. The applications should be scrutinized to make sure that, both in terms of qualifications and attainment they are comparable with the candidates admitted in the general category. Department will conduct VC based interview for ascertaining suitability of the candidate. The applications of foreign nationals, who are sponsored by the Indian Council of Cultural Relations ICCR will be scrutinized by the department concerned to assess their suitability for admission to the programme. The departments recommendation will be sent to the Chairperson, Senate through the Chairperson, AC. 20.2.9 Admission to Ph.D sponsored external part-time Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad. The applicant must have a masters degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60 marks or at least 6.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN GEN-EWS OBC 55 for SC ST , The applicant must have MBBS with MD MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60 marks or at least 6.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN GEN-EWS OBC 55 for SC ST in bachelors degree, The applicant must have a bachelors degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70 marks or at least 7.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN OBC 65 for SC ST . The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience after qualifying degree in industry R D laboratories Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. The applicant must qualify the written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially sponsored by that institute or university to complete part of his her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the non-degree student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. Any candidate can be admitted as a casual student for specific courses provided the candidate satisfies the minimum eligibility criteria specified in Section 20.2. The application must be routed through the office of Dean R D. Students so admitted will be governed by all rules, regulations and discipline of the Institute. 20.4 Reservation Policy The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 21 PG Registration Back to index 21.1 Limits on Registration Back to index Maximum and minimum number of credits a student can register in different programs: M.Sc.: An M.Sc. student can register for a maximum of 24 credits and a minimum of 10 credits in a semester. M.Tech.: An M.Tech. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.1. Table 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester Summer Term M.Tech. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Regular Semester Executive Accelerated 24 10 Executive Normal 17 10 Executive Slow-Paced 12 3 Executive Part-Time 12 3 Full-time Regular Sponsored 17 10 External 20 10 Part-time 12 3 Summer Term Executive Accelerated 16 0 Executive Normal 9 0 Executive Slow-Paced 6 0 Full-time Regular 9 5 Full-time Sponsored 9 0 External 9 0 Part-time 6 0 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester Summer Term Insert TableTable 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester Summer Term M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Direct Ph.D. Joining after B.Tech. The maximum and minimum credits that an M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree student can register are equivalent to that of an M.Tech. Regular External Part-time student. Ph.D.: A Ph.D. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.2. Table 21.2 Maximum and Minimum Credits a Ph.D. student Regular can register for during the Regular semester Ph.D. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Full-time Regular 12 6 External 12 6 Part-Time .1.1 Registration Kept Alive RKA A student admitted to an M.Tech program who has at least completed minimum credit requirement of the first semester, can keep his studentship alive while he is pursuing any professional activity, by opting for RKA in subsequent semesters. The candidate must indicate his intent of RKA before the last date of late registration through DRC to Dean academic . The candidate has to pay appropriate registration fees for RKA status. A student can maintain RKA status for a maximum of 6 semesters. 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme Back to index A regular student registered for the M.Tech. programme having CGPA 8 or more at the end of the second semester may be allowed to switch to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program till the end of the third semester. As a special case, a student can switch to a dual degree in the fourth semester with the approval of DRC, provided his her CGPA is 8 or more, who will then be required to complete his her candidacy requirements by the end of the fifth semester. All conditions of M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program Back to index A part-time M.Tech. student having CGPA 8 or more after completion of at least 24 credits may be allowed to change his her registration to the Ph.D. program. The credits earned will be counted towards his her Ph.D. course work requirements. 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time External Ph.D. Programme Back to index A student admitted to a full-time Ph.D. programme may be permitted to change to a part-time Ph.D. programme. A student requesting such a conversion must: have successfully completed his her candidacy requirement; get the request endorsed by the supervisor s and the DRC; produce a No Objection Certificate from his her employer for carrying out the research work. 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program Back to index M.Sc. 8 registered semester M.Tech. Regular and Part-time External Executive 12 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive RKA after completion of the first semester. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as at of sponsored candidates. Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Regular and Part-time External 14 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive RKA after completion of the two semesters. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as that of sponsored candidates. Students may request for RKA to Dean Academics through DRC. 21.6 Course Registration Back to index Students will be eligible to register for courses as per the criterion specified in Section 21.1 and Table 4.4. The DRC IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during her his Masters or Bachelors program. 22 Academic Requirements Back to index 22.1 Academic Load Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programmes Back to index The total credits for a course are calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours L-T-P assigned as given in Table 22.1 and 22.2 for M.Sc. and M.Tech. Ph.D. programmes respectively. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours on an average to be spent by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 22.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Sc. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours Total Credits TC TH 3 Contact Hours CH Beyond ContactHours BCH TotalHours TH 1 hour of Lecture . hour of Tutorial . hour of Lab .5 1.5 0. hour of Project .0 Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. Table 22.2 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Tech. Ph.D. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours Total Credits TC TH 4 Contact Hours CH Beyond ContactHours BCH TotalHours TH 1 hour of Lecture . hour of Tutorial . hour of Lab . hour of Project . hour of Thesis Ph.D. .0 Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. h4 22.2 Course categories for Masters programmes Back to index Compulsory Course MC Programme Elective ME Open Elective MO Project works MP Non-graded NG 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students Back to index Course categories and academic requirements for M.Sc. students are given below in Table 22.3. Table 22.3 Programs Credits to be earned for MSc students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP Total M.Sc. Chemistry M.Sc. Mathematics M.Sc. Physics .4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students Executive M.Tech. Back to index Course categories and academic requirements for M.Tech. students are given below in Table 22.4. Table 22.4 Minimum Credits to be earned For MTech students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech Sensors and Internet of Things M.Tech Cyber Physical System M.Tech Thermofluids Engineering M.Tech Advanced Manufacturing Engineering and Design M.Tech Metallurgical and Materials Engineering M.Tech Artificial Intelligence M.Tech Computer Science and Engineering M.Tech Bioscience and Bioengineering M.Tech Data and Computational Sciences .5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. M.Tech. Dual Degree Back to index Minimum credit requirements for M.Sc. M.Tech. Dual Degree is the cumulative sum of credit requirements for respective M.Sc. program and M.Tech. program as mentioned in Sections 22.3 and 22.4. 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Back to index Course categories and academic requirements for MTech PhD dual degree students are given below in Table 22.5. Table 22.5 Minimum Credits to be earned for dual degree MTech and PhD students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Sensors and Internet of Things M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Cyber Physical System M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Communication and Signal Processing M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Thermofluids Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Manufacturing Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Design Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Metallurgical and Materials Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Computer Science and Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Artificial Intelligence M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Bioscience and Bioengineering The DRC IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during Bachelors program and take necessary corrective action by suggesting alternative courses 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students Back to index The minimum credits to be earned through courses is listed in Table 22.6. Table 22.6 Credit Requirements for PhD students S.No. Ph.D. in With Minimum Credits through Course Work Minimum Credits through Thesis Work 1.0 Engineering discipline IDRP M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. Engineering in an Engineering discipline 12 48 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 30 48 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. Engineering in an Engineering discipline .0 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline .8 Academic Performance Requirements Back to index 22.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is given in below Table 22.7. Table 22.7 Minimum CGPA requirements Sr. No. Program Continuation in Programme For graduation 1 M.Sc. only graduation requirement Refer 22.8. M.Tech. Dual Degree M.Sc. and M.Tech. Dual Degree M.Tech. and Ph.D. Ph.D. 7 7.5 at completion of course work 22.8.2 Continuing criteria for M.Sc. M.Sc.- The student must earn at least 20 credits at the end of the second semester for continuation in the program. 22.8.3 Minimum performance for continuation Assistantship Fellowship The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation Assistantship Fellowship is given in below Table 22.8 Table 22.8 Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship Fellowship Sr. No. Program Continuation of Assistantship Fellowship 1 M.Tech. 6. Dual Degree M.Tech. and Ph.D. 7. Ph.D. 7. . Leave Rules Back to index Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DRC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DRC. 23.1 Leave Back to index A maximum of 30 days in an academic year including leave on medical grounds mid semester break . The student must apply for leave in advance even during the summer winter term or mid-semester break. A PhD student cannot avail leave for more than 15 days at a stretch An M.Tech. M.Sc. student cannot avail leave for more than 10 days at a stretch The leave beyond 30 days in an Academic Year may be granted in exceptional cases by DRC without assistantship during that period. 23.2 Other Leaves Back to index Maternity leave for Ph.D. students is sanctioned as per the directives of MHRD. It will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme. Any other leave may also be permissible as per the guidelines of MHRD. 23.3 Semester Withdrawal Back to index May be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. In all such cases, the fellowship will be stopped with immediate effect and it will be continued for only after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 23.4 Academic Leave Back to index Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as Fieldwork Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library Experimental work training using specialized facility not available at IITJ Attending conferences workshops summer winter schools symposium Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech. Ph.D. supervision Collaborative work for a specific problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme as indicated in his research proposal Exchange program as part of an exchange program with a sister institution in India or abroad All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC DRC IRC before the leave is granted. SRC DRC IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowship during academic leave A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave. A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester as certified by SRC and approved by DRC. 24. Financial Assistance Back to index Financial assistantship scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following: 24.1 M.Sc. Program Back to index 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program Back to index A student having completed minimum credit requirements of an M.Sc. program at the end of the second year with a CGPA 8 OR b have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. 24.3 M.Tech. Program Back to index A regular M.Tech. student with GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. 24.4 Executive M Tech Program Back to index Students admitted in this category will not be provided any financial assistance from the Institute. 24.5 M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Program Back to index Rules and regulations governing financial assistance for dual degree students will be at par with regular Ph.D. students. 24.6 Ph.D. Program Back to index A regular Ph.D. student admitted to the Institute will be eligible for financial assistance as per the norms of IIT Jodhpur. a A candidate having B.Tech. B.S. four-year program Masters degree with GATE NET JRF NBHM or equivalent can have financial assistance as per MHRD norms or equivalent applicable for non-science departments. b The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech or equivalent post-bachelors degree c A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. A Ph.D. student would be eligible for enhancement in the scholarship after two years provided the student has met qualifier requirement. The enhanced fellowship will commence from the date of completion of both the conditions. No arrears will be provided due to delay in completing the qualifier requirement. The Teaching Research Assistantship of a Ph.D. student shall stop from the day of submission of the Thesis. 25. Rules and Regulations For M.Tech. M.Sc. Project Back to index Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor s . The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester. Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor s . Each semester a letter grade will be awarded after examination by a committee consisting of DRC, supervisor s and two members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department maybe outside the Institute also . DRC will appoint examiners in consultation with the supervisor. The same committee may examine more than one thesis. External member can be on VC. DRC will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy. A regular full-time student must register for M.Tech Project Part-1 in the summer semester following 2 nd semester. He must obtain a satisfactory grade to continue M.Tech project part-1 in the next semester. His performance in the summer semester will be evaluated by his supervisor. 26 Rules and Regulations for Ph.D. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program Back to index 26.1 Thesis Supervisor s Back to index 26.1.1 Selection of Ph.D. Candidates The selection should be based on merit and capability of the candidate to conduct research. There should at least be a faculty member available or likely to join in the areas of interest of the candidate at the time of selection. 26.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor s Ph. D. students shall be admitted in the department and no supervisor shall be assigned at the time of selection. Allotment of students to supervisor s will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor s . For both Ph. D. and M. Tech. Ph. D. Dual degree supervisor s and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester The Convener, DRC Department Research Committee Coordinator Interdisciplinary Research Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor s . There shall not be more than two supervisors, in general, for a student. Additional supervisor can be allowed with the approval of Chairman, Senate. A supervisor from outside the institute, before the qualifier, may be appointed on the request of student supervisor s with the recommendation of the DRC IRC and the Dean Academics and approval of the Chairman, Senate. The external supervisor will be requested to sign Intellectual Property Right IPR and Non-Disclosure Agreement NDA documents as a part of acceptance. From the financial point of view the Institute will have no obligation to the external supervisor. 26.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor Additional supervisor Whenever the supervisor proceeds on short leave for a period up to one year, the DRC IRC Interdisciplinary Research Committee shall appoint a caretaker supervisor in consultation with the supervisor and the student to take care of the administrative requirements. Whenever the supervisor proceeds on long leave for a period more than a year, then an additional supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor The supervisor going on lien or sabbatical may continue supervising students and the supervisor can opt for either an additional supervisor or a caretaker supervisor. The supervisor on his her retirement or on resignation may continue as a supervisor and will have to opt for an additional supervisor provided the student has cleared qualifier before the supervisors retirement resignation. 26.1.4 Composition of Departmental Research Committee DRC The DRC will consist of coordinators of M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree and Ph.D. programs of the department, head of the Department and Senior Professor Associate Professor proposed by the Head. The DRC will be Chaired by Professor Associate Professor nominated by Head of the Department. The Chairman of the DRC will be a member of the Academic Committee. The DRC has to be approved by Dean Academics . Ph.D. program coordinator will be the convenor of DRC and will be proposed by the head. The tenure for the DRC will be 2 years. 26.1.5 Composition of Interdisciplinary Research Committee IRC The IRC will consist of all coordinators of IDRPs and Senior Professor Associate Professor as the chairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean Academics . The chairman of IRC will be a member of AC. One of the IDRP co-ordinators would be convenor of the committee. The tenure for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean Academics . 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor Back to index Change of supervisor s , under exceptional circumstances, shall be permitted by Dean Academics on the recommendation of the DRC IRC after obtaining the consent of i the student ii the present supervisor s and iii the proposed supervisor s . If required, realignment of students research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC IRC. 26.3 Student Research Committee SRC Back to index 26.3.1 Composition of SRC The SRC will normally consist of supervisor s and three other faculty members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department maybe outside the Institute also . A Student Research Committee SRC for the candidate shall be proposed by the supervisor s , recommended by the DRC IRC and approved by Dean Academics . The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and the supervisor s will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean Academics . The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester. Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the DRC IRC to Dean Academics for record Chairman and supervisor s shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the thesis. The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the completion of the program. 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting APM Back to index The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon i Annual Progress Report and ii A Poster Presentation open to all. SRC will award a Satisfactory Non-Satisfactory grade based upon i and ii . Two consecutive Non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of registration. For implementational convenience, academic calendar must indicate two days in a year for conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars. Following the groupings of students and scheduling guidelines are suggested 1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During 1st July to 30th September of the year. 2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December to 28th February of the year. The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements. Each semester Satisfactory progress or Unsatisfactory progress will be reported by the supervisor s through the SRC for record. Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee and approved by Dean academics 26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student Back to index The following four components together will constitute qualifier candidacy requirements for a Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship. 1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1 2. Cleared comprehensive examination 3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research 4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements before the beginning of the fifth semester of his her registration in the Ph. D. program and in any case not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in the Ph. D. program. Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before the beginning of the seventh semester. 26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. M.Tech-Ph.D Student The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the student and the breadth of his her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the field of research. The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination Committee of the Department IDRP. The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers. Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination. Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The course content of these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the same as courses offered by the department; it must be designed to test the breadth of the knowledge in that area. The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement for a particular student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments. The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student within two weeks of SRC formation. All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days. A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he she has completed the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement. If the performance of the Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the first attempt is not satisfactory, he she will be given one more opportunity to appear within six months of the first attempt. For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in all papers. Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students: Ph.D. : within 3 semesters Direct Ph.D. and MTech PhD Dual Degree: within 5 semesters 26.5.2 State of Art Seminar SOTA Every Ph.D. student is required to give a general seminar in the Department covering the State of Art of the area of research. The presentation must also include patent landscaping of the area. The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal. 26.5.3 Research Proposal Research proposal report presentation will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion of SOTA. The research proposal must include representative research work equivalent to research work worth 16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance of the candidate. 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree Back to index A student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D. degree after he she has completed the qualifier requirements for the degree. Only such students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis. 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program Back to index M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualifier requirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years can also convert into part-time external Ph.D. student and exit with M.Tech degree if all conditions for part-time external conversion are satisfied. The renewal of their registration for every semester however, will be considered only if SRC finds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends the continuance of registration. 26.8 Cancellation of Registration Back to index The registration of a student whose progress is not found to be satisfactory by the SRC or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation. The registration of a student who has not submitted his her thesis before the end of the maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation. 26.9 Synopsis Back to index Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis. Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsis report Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within six months of the open seminar date. If required, an extension of three months may be permitted by Dean Academics on the recommendation of SRC. If the synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specified period, the student will be asked to present the synopsis again. On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in 4.6.1, the comprehensive examination, the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis, the student shall submit the requisite copies of the synopsis of his her research work in the required format through the supervisor s and HoD to the Academic Section for consideration of the SRC. The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication in a refereed journal refereed conference SRC members are required to certify the quality of journals conference . 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation Back to index The supervisor s shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting of at least four Faculty Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in which the student undertook research. For selecting an examiner, the following guidelines should be followed The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience; No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute. Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners. The Chairman, Senate, shall select minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of which at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of these examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. In addition, SRC and Supervisor s shall be the examiners of the Thesis. The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor s and the external examiner. One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense. The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months from the date of receipt of the Thesis. If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean Academics shall request the Supervisor s to hold the Thesis Defense by the student. If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean Academics shall report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration. The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under special circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be awarded by the Institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis, the student shall resubmit the Thesis after the revision within a prescribed time period of 6 months in consultation with the Supervisor s . When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the Thesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the suggestions corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis. The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor s , the Examiner from within India and other Faculty Members quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor s and an external examiner , who participated in the Comprehensive Examination of the student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their recommendation, Dean Academics shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award of Ph.D. degree to the student. 27. Graduation Requirements Back to index A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below. 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement Back to index Table 27.1 Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Qualifications at the time of joining the Program Minimum Duration in semesters of Residence 1.0 M.Sc. All qualifying degrees 4. .0 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree All qualifying degrees 7. .0 M.Tech. Programs Full-time Regular Sponsored All qualifying degrees 3.0 Part-time Part-time Executive All qualifying degrees 0.0 Executive All qualifying degrees 1. .0 Ph. D. Programs Full-time Regular Engineering discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. Engineering in an Engineering discipline 2.0 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 5.0 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. Engineering in an Engineering discipline 5.0 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 2.0 Part-time All qualifying degrees 0.0 External All qualifying degrees 1. .2 Academic Back to index The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she he has earned the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09. 27.3 No Dues Clearance Back to index Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean Academics 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action Back to index The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her him. 27.5 Award of Degrees Back to index 27.5.1 Provisional Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, can be provided with a provisional certificate by the office of Dean Academics on the approval of Chairman, Senate. 27.5.2 Degree Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors BOG for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. 28. AMENDMENTS Back to index Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes at IIT-Jodhpur. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Curriculum Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Curriculum Curriculum for Programs Before 2019 Curriculum for Programs from . Bachelor of Technology Programs 1. B.Tech. Bioengineering link will open on intranet only 2. B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering link will open on intranet only 3. B.Tech. Electrical Engineering link will open on intranet only 4. B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering link will open on intranet only 5. B.Tech. AI and Data Science link will open on intranet only 6. B.Tech. Chemical Engineering link will open on intranet only 7. B.Tech. Materials Engineering link will open on intranet only 8. B.Tech. Civil and Infrastructure Engineering link will open on intranet only Other Course Contents 1. UG First Year link will open on intranet only 2. List of Institute wide common courses and course contents from 2nd year onwards link will open on intranet only 3. Transition plan for B.Tech. 2016, 2017 and 2018 Batches link will open on intranet only Old Transition Plan link will open on intranet only 4. Minor Department Interdisciplinary Specialization for batches undergoing transition plan link will open on intranet only 5. Non Graded Institute Level Courses link will open on intranet only 6. Courses Offered by HSS link will open on intranet only 7. Courses identified as programme electives but offered by the other departments link will open on intranet only Curriculum for PG Programs 2. Master of Science Programs 1. M.Sc. Chemistry link will open on intranet only 2. M.Sc. Mathematics link will open on intranet only 3. M.Sc. Physics link will open on intranet only 4. M.Sc. Digital Humanities link will open on intranet only 3. Master of Science - Master of Technology Programs 1. Mathematics Data Science link will open on intranet only 4. Master of Technology Programs 1. M.Tech. Bioscience Bioengineering link will open on intranet only 2. M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering - updated course content for M.Tech. Computer science and Engineering and Artificial Intelligence link will open on intranet only 3. M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence - updated course content for M.Tech. Computer science and Engineering and Artificial Intelligence link will open on intranet only 4. M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems link will open on intranet only 5. M.Tech. Sensors and Internet of Things link will open on intranet only 6. M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences link will open on intranet only 7. M.Tech. Advanced Manufacturing link will open on intranet only 8. M.Tech. Thermofluids Engineering link will open on intranet only 9. M.Tech. Materials Engineering link will open on intranet only 10. M.Tech. Chemical Engineering link will open on intranet only 11. M.Tech. Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Environmental Engineering link will open on intranet only 12. M.Tech. Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Energy link will open on intranet only 13. M.Tech. Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality link will open on intranet only 14. M.Tech. Intelligent Communication Systems link will open on intranet only 15. M.Tech. - Robotics and Mobility Systems link will open on intranet only 5. Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Programs 1. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Bioscience Bioengineering link will open on intranet only 2. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Computer Science Engineering link will open on intranet only 3. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Artificial Intelligence link will open on intranet only 4. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Communication and Signal Processing link will open on intranet only 5. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Cyber Physical Systems link will open on intranet only 6. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Sensors and Internet of Things link will open on intranet only 7. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Data and Computational Sciences link will open on intranet only 8. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Metallurgical Materials Engineering link will open on intranet only 9. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Design Engineering link will open on intranet only 10. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Advanced Manufacturing link will open on intranet only 11. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Thermofluids Engineering link will open on intranet only 12. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Chemical Engineering link will open on intranet only 13. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Environmental Engineering link will open on intranet only 14. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Energy link will open on intranet only 15. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Intelligent Communication Systems link will open on intranet only 6. Doctor of Philosophy Programs Core Sciences 1. Ph.D. Chemistry link will open on intranet only 2. Ph.D. Mathematics link will open on intranet only 3. Ph.D. Physics link will open on intranet only Engineering Sciences 1. Ph.D. Biosciences and Bioengineering link will open on intranet only 2. Ph.D. Computer Science Engineering 3. Ph.D. Electrical Engineering link will open on intranet only 4. Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering link will open on intranet only 5. Ph.D. Metallurgical Materials Engineering Inter-disciplinary Areas 1. Ph.D. Robotics and Mobility Systems 2. Ph.D. Science of Intelligence 3. Ph.D. Digital Humanities link will open on intranet only 4. Ph.D. IOT Applications 5. Ph.D. Quantum Information and Computation link will open on intranet only 6. Ph.D. Smart Healthcare link will open on intranet only 7. Ph.D. Space Technologies Humanities Social Sciences Ph.D. Humanities Social Sciences link will open on intranet only Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Faculty Welcome to faculty position The Department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Jodhpur invites applications for faculty positions at all levels. Candidates should have a PhD degree in CSE, or a related field. The candidates are expected to have excellent research track record and commitment towards teaching. While we encourage candidates from all areas of CSE to apply, special emphasis will be given to the following areas: Algorithms, Quantum Computation, Information Security, Database Systems, Data Engineering, Cloud Technologies, Edge and Fog Computing, Computer Graphics, Animation, Augmented and Virtual Reality, Data Visualisation, Computer Vision, Human Machine Interface, Information Retrieval, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Natural Language Understanding, Software Systems and Engineering, Programming Languages and Compilers, Social and Complex Networks, Autonomous Systems, High Performance Computing, Parallel Programming, GPU Programming, Distributed Systems, OS and Networking, 5G and 5G Systems, Sensors and IoT. About IIT Jodhpur: IITJ has a sprawling campus of over 850 acres with 3000 students and 210 faculty members with the department of CSE having 20 faculty members. The department coordinates the BTech, MTech and MTech-PhD programs in CSE and AI, along with PhD in CSE. More details about the department can be found at . The institute also houses the Technology and Innovation Hub on CV, AR and VR. Any Indian national, PIO, or Foreign national is eligible to apply. The rules of Government of India will be applicable for terms and conditions of the appointments. We offer salary and benefits as per the norms of the central government. Benefits include relocation expenses, maternity paternity leaves, a generous initiation grant, PhD student support, on campus housing if available , access to on-campus medical facilities, access to on-campus sports facilities etc. In case of any clarification, candidates may reach out to . Interested candidates are encouraged to apply via . Why Choose IIT Jodhpur Opportunity to work with a diverse group of very talented faculty members in diverse areas of computer science. The department and the institute highly also encourage inter-departmental collaboration. The department has high-end computational facilities available in addition to the central facilities available with the institute. Some of the departmental facilities include DGX-2, multiple servers, VANET Lab, and AR-VR lab. The DGX2 server is a high-performance computing system designed specifically for artificial intelligence AI and deep learning applications. This server is equipped with 16 NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs, which provide massive parallel processing power and high-bandwidth memory to support large-scale machine learning models. It comes with NVLink technology, which enables fast inter connectivity between GPUs, as well as a high-speed NVMe storage system for efficient data processing. With these capabilities, the DGX2 server can handle demanding AI workloads with ease, making it an ideal resource for researchers and developers in the department. The department also has several high-end workstations servers with Nvidia A5000 and Nvidia 1080Ti designed for individual use. These workstations are equipped with powerful CPUs, high-speed storage, and advanced GPUs, making them suitable for a range of computational tasks, including data analysis, machine learning, and scientific computing. The department has several servers that are used for various purposes, including web hosting, database management, and file storage. These servers are equipped with powerful CPUs and storage, making them suitable for handling large amounts of data and serving multiple users simultaneously. Generous seed grant of Rs. 25 lakhs for new faculty members to kick-off their research. Engage in the department's growth by being a part of designing the policies and course curriculum. Regular talks by leading experts in various disciplines. Location at the picturesque Jodhpur campus, close to mother nature. Freedom to organise events and activities for the advancement of your research in the community. Enthusiastic departmental staff members to handle day-to-day requests. Eligibility Scale Of Pay Selection Procedure Apply Online Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Members Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Faculty Members Indian Institute of Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur invites online applications from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for full-time faculty positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor to conduct teaching and research in the following Departments. Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering School of Liberal Arts Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics The Institute cordially invites interested candidates to consider choosing IIT Jodhpur as their venue to realize their dream to serve the nation, through their competencies that would help to address the technology grand challenges of the nation. Persons with exceptional academic and research record in other areas of Engineering and Sciences also are invited to apply. For more details, please visit the link. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Members Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Faculty Members Specialization for Positions in Department of Mechanical Engineering Applications are invited from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for contractual and full-time positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering to carry out teaching-learning and research in the following fields: Fluid and Thermal Sciences, Manufacturing, Solid Mechanics and Design The Department also welcomes applicants with background in other relevant fields of Mechanical Engineering. Applicant should preferably have undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering or allied branches such as Aerospace Engineering, Production or Industrial Engineering from a reputed Institute or University along with good academic record throughout from Class X. The Institute is building extensive laboratory facilities with many advanced state-of-the-art equipment to undertake research and development. Further, the Department encourages faculty members to interact with the industry and national laboratories to conduct research and development in nationally relevant areas. The Department offers Undergraduate, Masters and Doctoral Degree Programs in Mechanical Engineering. For more information, please visit the Department website at: Mechanical Engineering Interested persons may apply at: Faculty Member Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 11 departments. These are: Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Humanities Social Sciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Members Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Faculty Members Specialization for Positions in Department of Mathematics Applications are invited from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for contractual and full-time positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics to carry out teaching-learning and research in the following fields: Algebra, Analysis, Differential Equations, Optimization, Probability and Statistics, Theoretical Computer Science, Data Science, Computational Science. The Department also welcomes applicants with background in other relevant fields of Mathematics. Applicant should preferably have undergraduate degree in Mathematics or Mathematical Science or Computer Science from a reputed Institute or University along with good academic record throughout from Class X. The Institute provides necessary facilities to undertake research and development. Further, the Department encourages faculty members to interact with the industry and national laboratories to conduct research and development in nationally relevant areas. The Department offers Masters and Doctoral Degree Programs in Mathematics and Data and Computational Sciences and is planning to launch a 4-year B.Tech. Programme in Artificial Intellegence and Data Science jointly with Department of Computer Science and Engineering. Faculty members are also required to teach courses in various Undergraduate and Masters degree programmes of the Institute. For more information, please visit the Department website at: Mathematics Interested persons Apply Here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Members Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Faculty Members Specialization for Positions in Department of Physics Applications are invited from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for contractual and full-time positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the Department of Physics to carry out teaching-learning and research in the following fields: Condensed Matter Physics Theory and Experiments , High Energy Physics, Quantum Information Optics. The Department also welcomes applicants with background in other relevant fields of Physics. Applicant should preferably have undergraduate degree in Physics or relevant field of Engineering from a reputed Institute or University along with good academic record throughout from Class X. The Institute is building extensive laboratory facilities with many advanced state-of-the-art equipment to undertake research and development. Further, the Department encourages faculty members to interact with the industry and national laboratories to conduct research and development in nationally relevant areas. The Department offers Masters and Doctoral Degree Programs in Physics. Faculty members are also required to teach courses in various Undergraduate and Masters degree programmes of the Institute. For more information, please visit the Department website at: Physics Interested persons may apply at: Faculty Positions Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Members Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Faculty Members Specialization for Positions in Department of Civil Engineering Applications are invited from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for contractual and full-time positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering to carry out teaching-learning and research in the following sub-disciplines: Architecture, Building Sciences and Services, Building Safety, Urban Infrastructure, Urban Planning. The Department also welcomes applicants with background in classical fields of Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering, Geomatic Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering and Geology, Hydraulic Engineering, Transportation Engineering, and Structural Engineering . Applicant should preferably have undergraduate degree in Civil Engineering from a reputed Institute or University along with good academic record throughout from Class X. The Institute is building extensive laboratory facilities with advanced state-of-the-art equipment to undertake research and development. Further, the Department encourages faculty members to interact with the industry and national laboratories to conduct research and development in nationally relevant areas. The Department will offer Undergraduate, Masters and Doctoral Degree Programs in Civil Engineering. For more information, please visit the Department website at: Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Interested persons may apply at: Faculty Members Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 10 departments. These are: Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Positions IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to Faculty Positions Portal Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur invites online applications from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for full-time faculty positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor to conduct teaching and research in the following Departments and Schools. Departments Bioscience Bioengineering Chemistry Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Physics Engineering Aerospace Engineering Economics Energy and Automotive Engineering Environment Sustainability Engineering Schools School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science SAIDE School of Design SOD School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Management Entrepreneurship SME The Institute cordially invites interested candidates to consider choosing IIT Jodhpur as their venue to realize. their dreams to serve the nation, through their competencies that would help to address the technology grand challenges of the nation. Use the following link to apply Click Here To Apply Online Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to The Office of Academics Academics Facilitates: a Admissions Prospectus: preparation printing; Sale of Application Forms; Issue of Admit Cards for Admission Test; Setting of Test Papers; Conduct of Admission Test; Evaluation of Answer Scripts; Announcement of Results; Admission Interviews Counseling; and Issue of Admission Letters. b Programs Course Registration; Semester Schedule; Scheduling of Mid- End-semester examinations; Evaluation and Re-evaluation of exams; Grade records, Grade Cards, Transcripts; Academic discipline academic integrity; Campus Mentor Program S-SM-FM interaction ; Monitoring teaching and Faculty Member workload; and Student exchange; inter-areas of study transfer of students; Convocation; New Programs. Announcement Reporting of new PG students : 23-25 July 2025. Reporting of new UG Students : 28-29 July 2025. Commencement of classes : 31 July 2025. Offer letter for UG Students B.Tech. BS issued : 22 July onwards Fee link for UG Students B.Tech. BS will be activated : 22 July onwards Admission related query : 1136 1135 Academic Divisions Departments Schools IDRPs IDRCs Centers Quick Access Academic Regulations Transcripts Download Forms Convocation Scholarships Fee Structure Ph.D. Thesis Defense List of Holidays Conversion-Medium of Teaching Circulars Program Details Program Structure Program Curriculum Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Help Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Help The website will enable people with visual impairments access the website using assistive technologies, including screen readers. The information of the website is accessible with different screen readers, such as JAWS, NVDA, SAFA, Supernova and Window-Eyes. Following table lists the information about different screen readers: Information related to the various screen readers Screen Reader Website Free Commercial Non Visual Desktop Access NVDA Free System Access To Go Free Hal Commercial JAWS Commercial Supernova Commercial Window-Eyes Commercial Speech Recognition Support The information of the website is accessible with different speech recognition software, such as Dragon Naturally Speaking as well as Speech Recognition support available in Windows Vista and Windows 7 operating systems. Following table lists the information about different speech recognition software: Information related to Speech Recognition Software Speech Recognition Software Website Free Commercial Windows Speech Recognition in Windows Vista Commercial Speech Recognition in Windows 7 Commercial Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Search Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Search Here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! . . . , . . . 2008 ; ; . . . . . . - , . . . - - - 2D : MBA 2026-28: CAT - MBA 202628 ! , : 62. 155 KB 2025-26 II , 333 KB 2025-26 -II SEM-II SME , -, 238 KB IIT . 13 . CRSI . RSC - RSC 1 . . . 2 .. 2025-26 -II 3 PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II 2025 Mar , Feb AI - Mar MATLAB Simulink - SDR - ... .. , . . . . . . . , , , . . . . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Sitemap RedirectToLoginPage !!! Sitemap This is an alphabetical list of pages. Jump To : A - B - C - D - E - F - G - H - I - J - K - L - M - N - O - P - Q - R - S - T - U - V - W - X - Y - Z - A About Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy RCRICE About Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur SURAJ About Department : Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling VTU About Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center IITJ-TISC About CoEs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science About Dean of Administration Department : Office of Administration About Digital Infrastructure Automation Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA About Director Department : Office of Director About Facilities Department : Chemistry About FAQs Department : Bachelor of Technology About PI Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA About Program Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion About Recruitment Department : Chemical Engineering About Regional Coordinating Institutions RCIs Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA About Research Department : Bioscience Bioengineering About Research Department : Chemistry About Research Department : Mechanical Engineering About Research Department : Digital Humanities About Research Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion About Research Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science About Research Department : Center for Education Technology CET About RuTAG Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development About SME Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship About Sustainability Plan Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development About Us Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy About Us Department : Office of Research Development About Us Department : Office of Stores Purchase About Us Department : Office of Security Transports About Us Department : Office of Estate About Us Department : Visitors Hostel About Us Department : Office of Publications About Us Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Academic Research Facilities Department : Bachelor of Technology Academic Calendar Department : Office of Academics Affairs Academic Outreach Department : School of Liberal Arts Academic Programs Department : Office of Academics Affairs Academic Regulations Department : Office of Academics Affairs Academic Users Department : Central Research Facility CRF Academics Department : Office of Students Academics Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy RCRICE Accessible Department : Institute Repository Office of Accounts Activities Department : Office of Resources and Alumni DORA Acts Statutes Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Adjunct Faculty Members Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Administration Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Admission Links Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Admission MDes XR Design Department : School of Design Admission to M.Tech. Degree Programmes Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Admission to two-year M.Des. in Smart Product Design, AY 2026-27 Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Admission to two-year M.Des. in XR Design, AY 2026-27 Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Admissions Department : Digital Humanities Admissions Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Advanced Digital VLSI Circuit Design Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Advanced Functional Materials Laboratory Department : Chemistry Advanced Manufacturing Department : Mechanical Engineering Advanced Materials and Future Technologies for Solar Energy Conversion Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Advertisements Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Advisors Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Affiliated Faculty Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur AI DS Ecosystem Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science AI and Economics Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science AI and Ethics Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science AI for Technology: Language and Vision Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science AI-Driven Healthcare Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science AIoT Fab Facilities Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility All Announcements Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All Events Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All Issues Department : Techscape All News Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All News Department : Office of Research Development All Research Highlights Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur All Security Alerts Archive Department : Cyber Security Alumni Department : School of Liberal Arts Alumni Department : Chemical Engineering Alumni Department : Computer Science Engineering Alumni Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Alumni Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Alumni Global Presence Department : Office of International Relations Analytical and Physical Chemistry Laboratory Department : Chemistry Annoncement Round 2 Department : Mathematics Annoncement Archive Department : Computer Science Engineering Announcement Department : Mathematics Announcement Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Announcement DCS Department : Mathematics Announcements Department : Computer Science Engineering Announcements Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Annual Reports of the Institute Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Applicant's Qualifications Department : Faculty Positions Applications of Advanced Technologies for Desert Warfare ATDW Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur DIA-CoE Apply Online Department : Bachelor of Technology Apply Online Department : Master of Science Apply Online Department : Master of Technology Apply Online Department : Doctor of Philosophy Archive Department : Winter School ARIIA 2019-20 Department : Institute Repository ARIIA Report Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Department : Computer Science Engineering Artificial Intelligence for Information and War Gaming Technologies AIWT Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur DIA-CoE Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Department : Electrical Engineering Ashirvad Water Challenge Consultancy Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Ashirvad Water Challenge Consultancy Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Assessment of Greywater Management Practices in Danwara and Hardhani villages Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Assessment of Water Supply Schemes in PHED to IITJ-JJM Centre Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Assets Department : Centre for Continuing Education CCE Assistantship Department : Master of Science Asymmetric Catalysis and Continuous Flow Chemistry Department : Chemistry Atomic Absorption Spectrometer AAS Department : Central Research Facility CRF Automotive Propulsion Department : Mechanical Engineering Award Grant archive Department : Computer Science Engineering Awards Department : Office of Resources and Alumni DORA B B.S. Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Sc B.S in Applied AI and Data Science Department : Executive Programs B.Tech Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering B.Tech Student Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering B.Tech. Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Bioengineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Chemical Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Electrical Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Materials Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs Background Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Become a Sponsor Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 Behavior, Cognition and Brain Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Behavioral Studies Department : Center for Education Technology CET BET Surface Area Pore Size Analyser Department : Central Research Facility CRF Biomaterials Tissue Engineering Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Biophysics Laboratory Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Bioscience Bioengineering Blended Learning and Flipped Classroom Department : Center for Education Technology CET Booking and Usage Charges Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Booking for External Sample Department : Central Research Facility CRF Booking for External Sample Department : Chemistry Booking for Internal Sample Department : Central Research Facility CRF Booking for Internal Sample Department : Chemistry Broad Functions Department : Office of Registrar Brochure Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Brochure Department : Institute Repository BS Chemistry with Specialization Department : Office of Academics Affairs BS Physics with Specialization Department : Office of Academics Affairs BTech Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Building Works Committee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur C C Ganga Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development C-H functionalization and Photoredox Catalysis Laboratory Department : Chemistry Calender Department : Electrical Engineering Campus Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Campus Immersion Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Campus Infrastructure Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Campus Life Department : Office of Students Campus Life IITJ Department : Bachelor of Technology Campus Sustainability Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Campus Sustainability Projects with OIE Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Capability Deck Department : Office of Corporate Relations Capacity Building Department : Centre for Digital Health Capacity Building Department : Manekshaw Centre MCOENSSR Capacity Building Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 20 October 2022 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 21 December 2023 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 21 September 2023 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 23 December 2024 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 23 September 2025 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on 25 September 2024 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on December 2025 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on World Water Day 22 March 2023 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Capacity Building Program on World Water Day 22 March 2025 Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ CAT Cut-offs Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Catalytic Surface Analyzer Department : Central Research Facility CRF Cell Molecular Physiology Laboratory Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Central Research Facility CRF Central Workshop Department : Mechanical Engineering Centre Offerings Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETE Faculty and Student Colloquium Department : Center for Education Technology CET CGPA Conversion Medium of Teaching Department : Office of Academics Affairs Chairman, BoG Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Chairpersons Coordinators of Committees Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Chemical Biology Laboratory Department : Bioscience Bioengineering ChemMeet 2024 Department : Chemistry Chromatography Department : Central Research Facility CRF Circular : Office of Registrar Circulars Department : Office of Academics Affairs Cognitive Engineering Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Collaboration Department : Office of Research Development Collaboration with Academia Department : Office of Academics Affairs Collaboration with Industry Department : Office of Academics Affairs Collaborations Department : Chemical Engineering Collaborations Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Collaborations Department : Electrical Engineering Collaborations Department : Mechanical Engineering Collaborations Department : Chemistry Collaborations Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Collaborations Department : Mathematics Collaborations Department : Physics Collaborations Department : Materials Engineering Collaborations Department : Office of International Relations Collaborations Department : Office of Academics Affairs Committee Department : Winter School Committee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Committee Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Communication Engineering Department : Electrical Engineering Communication Engineering Department : Electrical Engineering Communication Engineering Department : Electrical Engineering Companies Oversight Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Competition Details Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 Complaint Suggestion Department : Office of Logistics Facilities LF Completed Projects Department : Chemical Engineering Completed Projects Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Completed Projects Department : Electrical Engineering Completed Projects Department : Mechanical Engineering Completed Projects Department : Chemistry Completed Projects Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Completed Projects Department : Mathematics Completed Projects Department : Physics Completed Projects Department : Materials Engineering Completed Projects Department : Robotics Mobility Systems Computational Biology Bioinformatics Laboratory Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Computational Chemistry Department : Chemistry Computational Economics Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Computational Intelligence Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Computational Laboratory Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Compute Resources Department : Computer Science Engineering Computer Center Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Computing Facilities Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Computing Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Department : Physics Constitution of the Board of Governors Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Constitution of the Senate Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur contact Department : M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Contact Department : M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Contact Department : Doctor of Philosophy Contact Department : Master of Science Contact Department : Master of Technology Contact Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Contact Department : Health Center Contact Department : Legal Cell Contact Department : Office of Accounts Contact Department : Office of Administration Contact Department : Office of Alumni Affairs Contact Department : Office of Training and Placement Contact Department : Office of Faculty Affairs Establishment E-I Contact Department : Office of Recruitment Non-Faculty Contact Department : Office of Estate Contact Department : Office of Infrastructure Engineering Contact Department : Office of Internal Audit Contact Department : Office of International Relations Contact Department : Office of Publications Contact Department : Office of Registrar Contact Department : Office of Research Development Contact Department : Office of Students Contact Department : Office of Stores Purchase Contact Department : RTI Cell Contact Department : Office of Security Transports Contact Department : Visitors Hostel Contact Department : Office of IITJ Connect PRO Contact Department : Office of Academics Affairs Contact Department : Bachelor of Technology Contact Department : Chemical Engineering Contact Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Contact Department : Electrical Engineering Contact Department : Mechanical Engineering Contact Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Contact Department : Mathematics Contact Department : Physics Contact Department : Materials Engineering Contact Department : Chemistry Contact Department : Computer Science Engineering Contact Department : Robotics Mobility Systems Contact Department : Digital Humanities Contact Department : Space Technology Contact Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Contact Department : Centre for Digital Health Contact Department : Quantum Information and Computation Contact Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Contact Department : Central Research Facility CRF Contact Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Contact Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Contact Department : School of Liberal Arts Contact Department : Office of Director Contact Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Contact Department : School of Design Contact Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion Contact Department : Winter School Contact Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Contact Department : Centre for Continuing Education CCE Contact Department : Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Contact Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Contact Department : Integrated Teacher Education Programme Contact Department : Techscape Contact Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Contact Department : Center for Education Technology CET Contact Department : Office of Executive Education Contact Department : Inclusivity Cell Contact Department : Lecture Series Contact Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Contact Department : IMPRINT India Contact Department : Ishaan Vikaas Program Contact Department : Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan RAA Contact Department : Vigyan Jyoti Program Contact Department : Support IIT Jodhpur Contact Department : Medical Technologies Contact Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Contact Department : Office of Deputy Director Contact Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Contact Department : Hindi Cell Contact Department : Green Cell Contact Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur DIA-CoE Contact Department : Office of Establishment Non-Faculty Contact Department : Manekshaw Centre MCOENSSR Contact Department : Office of Corporate Relations Contact Department : Cyber Security Contact Department : Engineering Science Contact Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy RCRICE Contact Department : Office of Resources and Alumni DORA Contact Department : Office of Logistics Facilities LF Contact Department : Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling VTU Contact Department : Jodhpur Hydrogen Valley Innovation Foundation JHVIF Contact Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Contact Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center IITJ-TISC Contact Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 Contact Angle Meter Department : Chemistry Contact Angle Meter Department : Chemistry Contacts Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur SURAJ Control and Computing Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Control Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Convocation Department : Office of Academics Affairs Coordination Committee Department : Central Research Facility CRF Corporate Relations Department : Chemical Engineering Courses Department : Chemical Engineering Courses Department : Physics Courses Department : Materials Engineering Courses Department : Chemistry Courses Department : Mathematics Courses Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Courses Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Courses Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Courses Department : Mechanical Engineering Courses Social Connect Responsibility Department : Office of Students CSR Department : Support IIT Jodhpur Current Activities Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Current Activities Department : Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan RAA Current Activities Department : IMPRINT India Current Activities Department : Vigyan Jyoti Program Curriculum Department : Chemical Engineering Curriculum Department : Physics Curriculum Department : Materials Engineering Curriculum Department : Chemistry Curriculum Department : Mathematics Curriculum Department : Electrical Engineering Curriculum Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Curriculum Department : Mechanical Engineering Curriculum Department : Office of Academics Affairs Curriculum Department : PhD Program Curriculum and Electives Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Curriculum for Programs Before 2019 Department : Office of Academics Affairs Cyber Awareness Department : Cyber Security Cyber Incident Reporting Department : Cyber Security Cyber Physical System Department : Electrical Engineering Cyber Physical System Modelling Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Cyber Security Advisory Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Cyber Threat Department : Cyber Security Cybersecurity Advisories Department : Cyber Security D Data Mining for Business Processes Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN DCI List Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Deans Associate Deans Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Deep Learning and Computer Vision Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Department Data Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Deposition Tool Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Deposition Tools Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Deputy Director Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Design and Development of NavIC Receiver Department : Electrical Engineering Design and Development of Substrate Integrated Waveguide SIW and Empty SIW ESIW Based RF-Microwave Components Department : Electrical Engineering Development of Advanced Greywater Treatment Units for Rural Sustainability Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Differential Scanning Calorimetry DSC Department : Central Research Facility CRF Digital Humanities Digital Language Laboratory Department : School of Liberal Arts Director Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Directory Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Discontinued Program Department : Office of Academics Affairs Dissertations Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Distinguished Lectures Department : Lecture Series Doctoral Program Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Doctoral Program Department : Quantum Information and Computation Doctoral Program Department : School of Liberal Arts Doctoral Program Department : Chemical Engineering Doctoral Program Department : Physics Doctoral Program Department : Chemistry Doctoral Program Department : Mathematics Doctoral Program Department : Electrical Engineering Doctoral Programs Department : Materials Engineering Doctoral Programs Department : Computer Science Engineering Doctorial Program Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Doctorial Program Department : Mechanical Engineering Doctors Schedule Department : Health Center Documents Required Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur SURAJ Donate Department : Office of Corporate Relations Donate Department : Office of Resources and Alumni DORA Download Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur DIA-CoE Download Forms Department : Office of Academics Affairs Downloads Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Dual Degree Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Dynamic Light Scattering DLS Department : Central Research Facility CRF Dynamics Of Machine Lab Department : Mechanical Engineering E E-Learning Studio Department : Center for Education Technology CET Editorial Board Department : Techscape EdTech Lab Department : Center for Education Technology CET EdTech Talk Department : Center for Education Technology CET Education Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Education Policy Department : Center for Education Technology CET Eduroam Guest Access Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Electrical Characterization Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Electrochemical Workstation Department : Chemistry Electrochemical Workstation Department : Chemistry Electrochemical Workstation Department : Chemistry Electronic Circuit Simulation and VLSI Systems Lab Department : Electrical Engineering Electronics Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Eligibility Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Eligibility Department : Bachelor of Technology Eligibility Department : Master of Science Eligibility Department : Master of Technology Eligibility Department : Doctor of Philosophy Eligibility Department : PhD Program Eligibility Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur SURAJ Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Email, LDAP Internet IDs Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Empanelled Hospitals Department : Health Center Energy and Environmental Catalysis Research Laboratory Department : Chemistry Energy Conversion and Systems Lab Department : Electrical Engineering Energy Conversion Laboratory Department : Mechanical Engineering Energy Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometer ED-XRF Department : Central Research Facility CRF Engineering Innovation Department : Electrical Engineering Engineering Science Department : Office of Academics Affairs Environmental Biotechnology Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Environmental Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering eOffice Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA ERP Automation Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Establishment E-I facilitates Department : Office of Faculty Affairs Establishment E-I Establishment E-II facilitates Department : Office of Recruitment Non-Faculty Events Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Events Department : Office of Research Development Events Department : School of Design Events Department : Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Events Department : Inclusivity Cell Events Department : Materials Engineering Events Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Events and Activities Department : Materials Engineering Events and Activities Department : Electrical Engineering Events, News and Achievements Department : School of Liberal Arts Executive Alumni Network Lifelong Learning Department : Office of Executive Education Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems IVS - July 2025 Session Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems IVS for Working Professionals Department : Executive Programs Executive Programs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Experimental Investigation and Performance Evaluation of HARQ Technique for Free-Space Optical Communication Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Experimental Plot Type C , IIT Jodhpur Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development External Booking Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Extra-Mural Lectures Department : Lecture Series F Facilities Department : Office of Students Facilities Labs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Facilities Resources Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center IITJ-TISC Facility Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Faculty Department : Computer Science Engineering Faculty Department : Integrated Teacher Education Programme Faculty Department : Office of Executive Education Faculty Achievements Department : Computer Science Engineering Faculty Advisor s Department : Office of Academics Affairs Faculty Development Program on Pedagogy and Technology-enabled Learning Department : Center for Education Technology CET Faculty Development Program- UGC HRDC-MGNRCE Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Faculty List by Reseach Area Department : Chemistry Faculty Members Department : Chemical Engineering Faculty Members Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Faculty Members Department : Electrical Engineering Faculty Members Department : Mechanical Engineering Faculty Members Department : Chemistry Faculty Members Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Faculty Members Department : Mathematics Faculty Members Department : Physics Faculty Members Department : Materials Engineering Faculty Members Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Faculty Positions Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Faculty Visit Department : Office of International Relations FAQ Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship FAQ Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship FAQs Department : PhD Program FAQs Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA FAQs Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship FAQs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science FAQs Department : Post-Doctoral Fellows PDF FAQs Department : Master of Science FAQs Department : M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree FAQs Department : Master of Technology FAQs Department : Doctor of Philosophy FAQs Department : M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree FAQs Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 FAQs: Applicants Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Fee Department : Bachelor of Technology Fee Department : Master of Science Fee Department : Master of Technology Fee Department : M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Fee Department : M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Fee Department : Doctor of Philosophy Fee Structure Department : Office of Academics Affairs Fee Structure Student Intake Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Feedback Department : Office of Logistics Facilities LF Final Placement Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Financial Aid Tution Fees Department : PhD Program First Year Class Time-Table Department : Office of Academics Affairs Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery Department : Mechanical Engineering Fluorescence Department : Chemistry Fluorescence Spectrometer Temperature Dependent Department : Central Research Facility CRF Fluorescence Spectrophotometer Department : Chemistry For International Students Department : Office of International Relations Forms Department : Office of Research Development Forms Department : Office of International Relations Forms Department : Centre for Continuing Education CCE Friends of IIT Jodhpur Department : Support IIT Jodhpur FTIR Department : Chemistry FTIR Department : Chemistry FTIR Spectrometer Department : Central Research Facility CRF FTP Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Functions of Internal Audit Department : Office of Internal Audit Fundamentals of Applied Vehicle Dynamics and Chassis Systems Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Funding Opportunities Department : Office of Research Development Futuristic Omni Mobility Drones OMD Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur DIA-CoE G Gallery Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Gallery Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Game-based Learning for Engineering Education Department : Center for Education Technology CET Gas-Chromatograph Department : Chemistry Gas-Chromatograph Department : Chemistry General Instructions to Applicants Department : Faculty Positions Geological Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering GIT Server Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Governing Council Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy RCRICE Government Sanskrit School Borunda, Pipar, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Aathuni Dhani, Osian, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Aathuno ki Dhani, Tapu Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Ambedkar Nagar, Kaliberi Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Baba ka devra, Balarwa, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Bhakandaa Naada Borunda Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Bhuree Beri, Kaliberi Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Ghorawat, Borunda Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Gurso ka Gaon, Newra, Osian, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Hanuman Bhakri, Balarwa Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Kumta Kshetra Chain Singh Nagar Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Navalgarh, Jhunjhunu Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Naya Bera, Tiwari Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Raiko ki dhani Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Government School Sindhlon ki dhani Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Grievance Redressal Committee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Groundwater Recharge for Arid and Semi-Arid Regions Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Guest Visit Department : Office of International Relations Guidelines Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy H Happening Now Department : Office of Corporate Relations Health Center Heat Transfer Laboratory Department : Mechanical Engineering Helicopter Lab Department : Mechanical Engineering Help Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur High Energy Physics and Astrophysics Department : Physics High Performance Liquid Chromatography HPLC Department : Central Research Facility CRF High Resolution Mass Spectrometer Department : Chemistry High Resolution Mass Spectrometer HRMS Department : Chemistry High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscope HR-TEM Department : Central Research Facility CRF High-Performance Workstation System Department : Chemistry Highlights Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Highlights Department : School of Liberal Arts Highlights Archives Department : School of Liberal Arts History Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Home Department : Office of International Relations Hostels Facilities Department : Bachelor of Technology House Allotment Rules Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur House Allotment Rules for Employee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur How to apply Department : PhD Program How to Apply Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship How to Apply Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur SURAJ How To Make A Complaint Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy How To Reach IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Hybrid Department : Center for Education Technology CET I IIRC Committee Department : Office of International Relations IIT Jodhpur Industry Connect 2022 Department : Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur-AIIMS Jodhpur Joint MedTech. Centre Advanced Molecular and Digital Technologies in Precision Oncology. Department : Executive Programs IITJ Location Campuses Department : Bachelor of Technology IITJ Sustainability Assessment Tool Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development IITJ-JJM Water Centre Showcases Innovations Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ IITJxPATI ARTIST IN RESIDENCY Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion Image Enabled Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter FACS Department : Central Research Facility CRF Image Processing and Computer Vision Lab Department : Electrical Engineering Imaging Microscopy Department : Central Research Facility CRF Immersive Education Department : Center for Education Technology CET Important Contacts Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy Important Dates Department : Bachelor of Technology Important Dates Department : Master of Science Important Dates Department : Master of Technology Important Dates Department : Doctor of Philosophy Important Information Department : Winter School Important Links Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Inbound Students Department : Office of International Relations Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometer ICP-MS Department : Central Research Facility CRF Industrial Engineering lab Department : Mechanical Engineering Industry Collaboration Strategic Partnerships Department : Office of Executive Education Industry Connect Department : School of Liberal Arts Industry Interaction Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Industry Interaction Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Industry Users Department : Central Research Facility CRF Information Department : Office of Research Development Information Department : Office of International Relations Information for Authors Department : Techscape Information for PWD Students Department : Inclusivity Cell Information regarding accommodation for candidates Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Ink Jet Printer Department : Central Research Facility CRF Institute Lectures Department : Lecture Series Institute Logo Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Institute Reports Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Instruments Department : Central Research Facility CRF Integrated Teaching Education Program ITEP Department : Center for Education Technology CET Intelligent Communication and Networking Department : Electrical Engineering Intelligent Communication Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Intelligent VLSI Systems Department : Electrical Engineering Internal Booking Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility International Dual Degree Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship International Faculty Department : Office of International Relations International Lecture Department : Office of International Relations Internet of Things IoT Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Internet Wi-Fi Access Facility Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Internship Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur SURAJ Internship Programs Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Internships Placements Department : Bachelor of Technology Introduction to IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Introduction to Statutory Bodies Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IPR Department : Office of Research Development Isolation facilities Department : Bachelor of Technology IT Jodhpur Surroundings Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur J Joint Consultative Committee Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Journal Publications Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering K Khel Khel Mein Vigyan Multilingual STEM Comics for Children Department : Center for Education Technology CET L Laboratories Department : Chemical Engineering Laboratories Department : Electrical Engineering Laboratories Department : Mechanical Engineering Laboratories Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Laboratories Department : Mathematics Laboratories Department : Physics Laboratories Department : Materials Engineering Latest Events Department : Mathematics Latest News Department : Robotics Mobility Systems Latest News Department : Digital Humanities Latest News Department : Space Technology Latest News Department : Quantum Information and Computation Latest News Department : Office of International Relations Latest News Department : Physics Latest News Department : Mathematics Latest Security Alerts Department : Cyber Security Legal Cell Licenses Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Life IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Lightwave Technology Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering List of Candidates in Waiting List Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs List of Holidays Department : Office of Academics Affairs List of Provisionally Selected Candidates Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs List of Shortlisted Candidates Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Lithography Tools Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Live Projects Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship M M. Tech. - Ph.D. Program Department : Materials Engineering M.Des. in Smart Product Design Department : School of Design M.S. by Research Program Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development M.S. by Research Program Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion M.Sc - M.Tech. Program Department : Materials Engineering M.Sc. Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. M.Tech. Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. Digital humanities Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. Mathematics -M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. Computational Social Science AY 2026-27 Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs M.Sc. Digital Humanities Department : Digital Humanities M.Sc. Digital Humanities AY 2026-27 Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs M.Sc. in Chemistry Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. in Mathematics Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Sc. in Physics Department : Materials Engineering M.Sc. in Physics Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech - Ph.D Student Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering M.Tech Student Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering M.Tech. Department : Quantum Information and Computation M.Tech. Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. Ph.D. Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. Data and Computational Science Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Advanced Manufacturing and Design Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Bioscience and Bioengineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Cyber Physical Systems Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Energy Infrastructure Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering M.Tech. in Environmental Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering M.Tech. in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Department : Materials Engineering M.Tech. in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Sensors and Internet of Things Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. in Thermofluids Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech. Program Department : Materials Engineering M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program in Communication Engineering Department : Office of Academics Affairs M.Tech.in Advanced Manufacturing and Design Department : Office of Academics Affairs Magnetometer Department : Central Research Facility CRF Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Management Development Programs Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Manual Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Manual Department : Office of Stores Purchase Masters Department : Medical Technologies Masters of Design MDes 2025 Department : School of Design Material Characterization Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility MATLAB Workshop on Signal Processing and ML Applications Department : Center for Education Technology CET MBA Department : Office of Academics Affairs MDes Department : Office of Academics Affairs MDes in Smart Product Design Department : School of Design MDes in XR Design Department : School of Design MDes in XR Design Department : School of Design MDes in XR Design Department : School of Design MDes in XR Design Department : School of Design MEA - IITJ Distinguished Lectures Department : Lecture Series Mechatronics Lab Department : Mechanical Engineering Medical Technologies Master Degree, Master-PhD Dual Degree, PhD Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Meeting MOMs Department : Central Research Facility CRF Message From The Head Department : School of Liberal Arts Message From The Head Of The Department Department : Mathematics Message from the Regional Coordinator UBA RCI, IIT Jodhpur Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Metrology lab Department : Mechanical Engineering Microelectronics and VLSI Department : Electrical Engineering Microelectronics Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Microgrid and Real-time Simulator Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Minor Programs Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Minutes of the Meetings of the Board of Governors Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Minutes of the Meetings of the Senate Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Miscellaneous Department : Central Research Facility CRF Mission Vision Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Mission Vision Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Mission Neer Uday Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Molecular Motors Cell Motility Lab Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Monthly Remuneration Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Moodle Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA MoUs Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering MS by Program Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science MSc Students Department : School of Liberal Arts MTech Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Multimodal Interaction Laboratory MIL Department : Electrical Engineering N Nano and Flexible Electronics Department : Electrical Engineering Natural Language Processing Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Net Zero Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Network Cognitive Neuroscience Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Network Cybersecurity Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Neuro Robotics Lab Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Neuroscience Neuro Engineering Laboratory Department : Bioscience Bioengineering News Department : Digital Humanities News Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development News Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA News Department : Center for Education Technology CET News Announcements Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy RCRICE News Events Department : Computer Science Engineering News Events Department : Centre for Digital Health News Events Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility News Newsletter Department : Bioscience Bioengineering News Newsletter Department : Mechanical Engineering News Newsletter Department : Materials Engineering News Newsletter Department : Electrical Engineering News Newsletter Department : Robotics Mobility Systems News Newsletter Department : Space Technology News Newsletter Department : Center for AIoT and Applications News Newsletter Department : Quantum Information and Computation News Newsletter Department : Central Research Facility CRF News Newsletter Archive Department : Center for AIoT and Applications News Updates Department : Office of Executive Education News and Events Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion News and Newsletter Department : Chemical Engineering News and Newsletter Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering News and Newsletter Department : Chemistry News Archive Department : Quantum Information and Computation News Group Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA News Event Department : Medical Technologies Newsletter Department : School of Liberal Arts Newsletter Department : Institute Repository Newsletter Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Newsletter Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ NIRF Department : Institute Repository NIRF Reports Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Non-Teaching Staff Recruitment Department : Office of Recruitment Non-Faculty Notification : Office of Registrar Notification : Office of Registrar Notification Department : Office of Research Development NPTEL Session Department : Center for Education Technology CET Nuclear Magnetic Resonance NMR Department : Central Research Facility CRF O Objective Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Office of Administration Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Corporate Relations Office of Director Office of Faculty Affairs Establishment E-I Office of Estate Office of Executive Education Office of Infrastructure Engineering Office of Internal Audit Office of International Relations Office of Publications Office of Recruitment Non-Faculty Office of Registrar Office of Research Development Office of Stores Purchase Office of Students Office of Training and Placement Office Orders : Office of Registrar Officers Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Old Regulations Department : Office of Academics Affairs Ongoing Projects Department : Chemical Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Ongoing Projects Department : Electrical Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Mechanical Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Chemistry Ongoing Projects Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Mathematics Ongoing Projects Department : Physics Ongoing Projects Department : Materials Engineering Ongoing Projects Department : Robotics Mobility Systems Ongoing Projects Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Open Source Department : Centre for Digital Health Operation Profiles Department : Flying Wings : National Level Hackathon 2026 Operational Model Department : Office of Executive Education Optical Diagnostics and Imaging Laboratory Department : Mechanical Engineering Optical Rotation Measurement System Department : Chemistry Optical Rotation Measurement System Department : Chemistry Optics and Photonics Department : Physics Orders Organic and Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory Department : Chemistry Orientation Department : Office of Students Other Archive Department : Computer Science Engineering Our Alumni Department : Mathematics Our Programs Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center IITJ-TISC Outbound Students Department : Office of International Relations Outreach Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Outreach Activity Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Outstanding Student Projects Department : Computer Science Engineering OwnCloud Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA P Packaging Tools Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Participation and presentation in International WASH Conference Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Partner Department : Winter School Partnership Department : Centre for Digital Health Past Programmes Department : Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling VTU Past Workshops Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Patents Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering PDF Positions Department : Chemistry PDF Positions Department : Post-Doctoral Fellows PDF People People Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN People Department : Ishaan Vikaas Program People Department : Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan RAA People Department : IMPRINT India People Department : Vigyan Jyoti Program People Department : Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat People Department : Center for Education Technology CET People Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy PG Diploma and M.Tech in Data Engineering Department : Executive Programs PG Diploma and MTech in Artificial Intelligence Department : Executive Programs PG Orientation Department : Office of Students Ph.D Student Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Ph.D. Department : Office of Academics Affairs Ph.D. Admission : Chemistry Ph.D. Thesis Defense Department : Office of Academics Affairs PhD Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering PhD Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science PhD Department : Medical Technologies PhD Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship PhD Admission Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development PhD Digital Humanities Department : Digital Humanities PhD in Design Department : School of Design PhD Program Department : Center for Education Technology CET PhD Program Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship PhD Program in Design Department : School of Design PhD Programs Department : Robotics Mobility Systems PhD Programs Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering PhD Scholars Department : School of Liberal Arts PhD Scholars Department : School of Design PhD Students Department : Computer Science Engineering PhD Students Department : Mathematics PhD Students Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Phone Book Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Photo Gallery Department : DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur DIA-CoE Physical Property Measurement System PPMS Department : Central Research Facility CRF Physics Pedagogy Lab Department : Center for Education Technology CET PI List Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA PI List Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA PI Note Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Placement Department : School of Design Placement Brochure Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Placement Process Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Placements Department : Computer Science Engineering Portfolio Department : Technology Innovation and Start-up Center IITJ-TISC Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Chemical Engineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Electrical Engineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Mechanical Engineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Chemistry Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Mathematics Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Physics Post Doctoral Fellows Department : Materials Engineering Post Graduate Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Post Graduate Program Department : Chemistry Postdoc Positions Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Postgraduate program Department : Electrical Engineering Postgraduate Program Department : Chemical Engineering Postgraduate Program Department : Physics Postgraduate Program Department : Materials Engineering Postgraduate Program Department : Mechanical Engineering Postgraduate Program Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Postgraduate Program - Computational Social Science MSc Department : School of Liberal Arts Postgraduate Programs Department : Computer Science Engineering Postgraduate Programs Department : Mathematics Power Electronics Drives Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Power Engineering Department : Electrical Engineering Previous Talks Department : Computer Science Engineering Procedure for RTI Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Process Department : Centre for Continuing Education CCE Professional Development Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Professor In Charge Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Program Curriculum Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Program Curriculum Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Program Delivery Infrastructure Department : Office of Executive Education Program Fee Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Program Pathways Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Program Portfolio Department : Office of Executive Education Program Structure Department : Physics Program Structure Department : Chemical Engineering Program Structure Department : Materials Engineering Program Structure Department : Chemistry Program Structure Department : Mathematics Program Structure Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Program Structure Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Program Structure Department : Mechanical Engineering Program Structure Department : Office of Academics Affairs Programs Department : Space Technology Programs for Working Professionals Department : Computer Science Engineering Project Department : Digital Humanities Project Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Project Positions Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Project Staff Appointment Department : Chemistry Project Staff Appointment Department : Chemical Engineering Project Staff Appointment Department : Office of Research Development Project Staff Members Department : Chemical Engineering Project Staff Members Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Project Staff Members Department : Electrical Engineering Project Staff Members Department : Mechanical Engineering Project Staff Members Department : Chemistry Project Staff Members Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Project Staff Members Department : Mathematics Project Staff Members Department : Physics Project Staff Members Department : Materials Engineering Projects Department : Computer Science Engineering Projects Department : Space Technology Projects Department : Quantum Information and Computation Projects Department : School of Liberal Arts Projects Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Projects Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Projects Research Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Psychology Lab Department : School of Liberal Arts Publication Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Publication Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Publications Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Publications Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Publications Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Publications Department : Central Research Facility CRF Q Quantum Physics Department : Physics R Raman Spectrometer Department : Central Research Facility CRF Recent patent from on Method of preparing negatively charged clay based ceramic membrane, has officially been granted Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Recruitment Recruitments Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Department : Mechanical Engineering Registrar Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Registration Department : Winter School Registration Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Registration Department : Office of Executive Education Registration Academic Session Department : Bachelor of Technology Regulations Department : Physics Regulations Department : Chemical Engineering Regulations Department : Materials Engineering Regulations Department : Chemistry Regulations Department : Mathematics Regulations Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Regulations Department : Mechanical Engineering Reporting Schedule for new Students Batch 2023-24 Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Research Department : Space Technology Research Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy RCRICE Research Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Research Infrastructure Department : Chemical Engineering Research Innovation Department : Centre for Digital Health Research Archive Department : Computer Science Engineering Research Area Department : Robotics Mobility Systems Research Area Department : Quantum Information and Computation Research Area Labs Department : Computer Science Engineering Research Areas Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Research Areas Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Research Groups Department : Physics Research Highlights Department : Chemical Engineering Research Highlights Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Research Highlights Department : Chemistry Research Highlights Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Research Highlights Department : Physics Research Highlights Department : Mathematics Research Highlights Department : Mechanical Engineering Research Highlights Department : Materials Engineering Research Highlights Department : Computer Science Engineering Research Highlights Department : Electrical Engineering Research Highlights Department : Centre for Digital Health Research Highlights Department : Central Research Facility CRF Research Laboratories Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Research Laboratories Department : Chemistry Research Overview Department : Electrical Engineering Research Project Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Research Projects Department : Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion Researchers Department : Computer Science Engineering Resources Department : Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan RAA Resources Department : Vigyan Jyoti Program Resources Department : IMPRINT India Resources Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur RF, Microwaves and Photonics Department : Electrical Engineering Rheometer Department : Central Research Facility CRF Robot Modeling and Control, and Applications to Aerial Robots Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Robotics and Intelligent Machines Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Robotics Lab Department : Mechanical Engineering RTI RTI Cell Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur RTI Welcome Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur S SandStone Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship SandStone 2.0 Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Scale of Pay Department : Faculty Positions Scanning Electron Microscope With Edax Department : Central Research Facility CRF Schedule Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Schedule for Written Test Interview Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Scholars-in-Residence Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Scholarships Department : Office of Academics Affairs Scholarships Department : Bachelor of Technology Scholarships Department : Master of Technology Scholarships Department : Doctor of Philosophy Scholarships Department : Office of Students Scholarships and Placements Department : Office of Students Security Department : Office of Security Transports Security Tools Department : Cyber Security SEG Proposals Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Selected Villages Department : Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Selection Process Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Seminar Department : Chemistry Seminar Events Department : Space Technology Seminar Events Department : Centre for Digital Health Seminar And Meetings Department : Mathematics Seminar And Meetings Department : Mechanical Engineering Seminar And Meetings Department : Computer Science Engineering Seminar And Meetings Department : Robotics Mobility Systems Seminar And Meetings Department : Digital Humanities Seminar And Meetings Department : Center for AIoT and Applications Seminar And Meetings Department : Central Research Facility CRF Seminars and Meetings Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Seminars and Meetings Department : Chemistry Seminars and Meetings Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Seminars and Meetings Department : Physics Seminars and Meetings Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Seminars and Meetings Department : Chemical Engineering Sensors and Internet of Things Department : Electrical Engineering Services Department : Health Center Services, Training and Technology Development Department : Center for Education Technology CET Sewage Manhole Gas Analysis for Safety in Jodhpur Old City Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ SFURTI Cluster- IIT Jodhpur is a Technical Agency KVIC Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Shortlisting Announcement Department : Mathematics Shortlisting Criteria and Syllabus for Written Test Interview Department : Admission to Postgraduate Programs Signal Processing Department : Electrical Engineering Signal Processing Lab Department : Electrical Engineering Simultaneous Thermal Analyzer STA Department : Central Research Facility CRF Smart Cities Infrastructure and Environment Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Smart Grid Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Social Engineering Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Social Outreach Department : School of Liberal Arts Social Outreach Department : Center for Education Technology CET Socio-digital Reality Department : Electrical Engineering Speakers Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Specialisation Department : PhD Program Specialization Minor Dual Degree Department : Office of Academics Affairs Spectroscopy Department : Central Research Facility CRF Spectroscopy Biophysics Laboratory Department : Chemistry Sponsors Collaborators Department : Computer Science Engineering Sponsors Institutional Partners Department : Grad Cohort Workshop Spotlight Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Spotlight Archives Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Sputter Coater for Metal Coating For SEM Department : Central Research Facility CRF STEM Teacher Training for JNVs 2025 Department : Center for Education Technology CET STI HUB Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development STI HUB IIT Jodhpur-Photos Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Strategy Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Strength Areas Department : Office of Corporate Relations Structural Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Student Department : Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy RCRICE Student Achievements Department : Computer Science Engineering Student Achievements Archive Department : School of Liberal Arts Student Life IIT Jodhpur Department : Office of Students Student Life at IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Student Volunteer Department : Office of International Relations Students Department : Computer Science Engineering Students Department : Chemical Engineering Students Department : Digital Humanities Students Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Students Department : PhD Program Students Presentation Department : Computer Science Engineering Students Presentation Department : Computer Science Engineering Substate Integrated Coaxial Line SICL based Circuits and Systems for Millimeter Wave Application Department : Electrical Engineering Suggestions Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy Summer Internship Department : School of Management Entrepreneurship Sustainability Plan And Policy Department : Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development Sustainability Policy Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Synthesis and Characterization of Materials for Energy Storage Devices Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Systems Software Department : Computer Science Engineering T TA-Ship Department : Office of Students Talks lectures archive Department : Computer Science Engineering Teaching Laboratories Department : Chemistry Teaching Learning Resources for Instructors Department : Center for Education Technology CET Teams Department : Computer Science Engineering Technical Staff Members Department : Chemical Engineering Technical Staff Members Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Technical Staff Members Department : Mechanical Engineering Technical Staff Members Department : Chemistry Technical Staff Members Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Technical Staff Members Department : Mathematics Technical Staff Members Department : Physics Technical Visit of High Level Delegation Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Technology Department : Office of Research Development Telephone Facility Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA TEM Sample Preparation Units Department : Central Research Facility CRF Tenders Tenders Announcement : Office of Stores Purchase Tenders Details Department : Office of Stores Purchase Testimonials Department : Office of Executive Education The Design Pod Department : School of Design The Digital Infrastructure Automation Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA The Prime Minister's Research Fellows PMRF Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Themes Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Theoretical AI Department : School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science Theoretical Computer Science Department : Computer Science Engineering Thermal Analyzer Department : Central Research Facility CRF Time Resolved Photoluminescence TRPL Department : Central Research Facility CRF Topological Solutions And Their Applications Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Training Workshop Department : Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility Transcripts Department : Office of Academics Affairs Transition Metal and Organometalics Research Laboratory Department : Chemistry Transport Department : Office of Security Transports Transportation Engineering Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering U UG Orientation Department : Office of Students UG Registration Guidelines Department : Office of Academics Affairs Under Graduate Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Undergraduate Courses Department : School of Liberal Arts Undergraduate Program Department : Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Program Department : Materials Engineering Undergraduate Program Department : Physics Undergraduate Program Department : Electrical Engineering Undergraduate Program Department : Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Program Department : Bioscience Bioengineering Undergraduate Programs Department : Computer Science Engineering Undergraduate Programs Department : Mathematics Upcoming Programmes Department : Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling VTU Upcoming Talks Department : Computer Science Engineering Updates and notifications Department : Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur SURAJ UV-Visible Spectrophotometer Department : Chemistry UV-Visible Spectrophotometer Department : Chemistry V Vanguard Lectures Department : Lecture Series Vanguard Lectures Department : Institute Repository Verification Department : Office of Students Vibration Laboratory Department : Mechanical Engineering View Lectures Department : Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN Vigilance Policy Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Virasat Department : Office of Students Vision Department : Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Vision and AR VR Department : Computer Science Engineering Vision and Mission Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Vision and Mission Department : School of Liberal Arts Visit for IITJ Hostels Water Quality Monitoring Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Central Ground Water Board Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Chief Municipal Officers of Madhya Pradesh Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Dr. Arindam Malakar, Water Research Scientist Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Groundwater Department Rajasthan Officials Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of NIH Scientists Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Prof. Venkappayya R Desai Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Prof. Venkappayya R Desai, Director IIT Dharwad Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit of Shri. Nalin Singhal Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit to Basani, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit to Bawarla, Pratap Nagar, Jodhpur Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit to Doliya and Jatiyawas Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visit to Manpura, Jhalamand Department : Center for Sustainable Drinking Water - IITJ Visiting Faculty Members Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Visual Computing Department : Electrical Engineering VLSI Systems Department : Electrical Engineering VPN Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA W Wardens Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Water Resource Engineering Laboratory Department : Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Web Hosting Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Web Information Manager WIM Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Web Policy Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Webinars Department : Computer Science Engineering Welcome to Faculty Positions Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Welcome to Faculty Positions Department : Chemistry What Can Be Termed As Sexual Harassment Department : Anti Sexual Harassment Policy Why Pursue a Career IIT Jodhpur Department : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Wireless and Microwave Laboratory Department : Electrical Engineering Work With Us Department : Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA Workshop on NEP Implementation Department : Center for Education Technology CET Workshop on Next-Generation Education Technology Department : Center for Education Technology CET Workshop on Pedagogy and Assessment Department : Center for Education Technology CET X X-Ray Difractometer Department : Central Research Facility CRF XRD Powder Department : Central Research Facility CRF Y Z Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! About IIT Jodhpur Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was established in 2008, to foster technology education and research in India. The Institute is committed to technological thought and action to benefit the economic development of India. Scholarship in teaching and learning; Scholarship in research and creative accomplishments; and relevance to Industry are three driving forces for us at IIT Jodhpur. IIT Jodhpur functions from its sprawling residential Permanent Campus of 852 acres on National Highway 65, north-northwest of Jodhpur towards Nagaur. This campus is meticulously planned and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics simple, but deep. Discover More about IITJ Highlight View All Highlights Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method Structure and exfoliation mechanism of two-dimensional boron nanosheets 2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nano architectonics and Recent Progresses MBA Admission 2026-28: CAT Cut-off for the Personal Interview MBA 202628 Admissions date extended! Extension Notice for the post of Registrar, Advt. No: 62. 155 KB Advertisement for the post of Registrar on Tenure Deputation , IIT Jodhpur Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate s Law Firm s at IIT Jodhpur 333 KB Latest News View All News Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal Impact Factor 13 Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry RSC Announcement View All Announcements 1 Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate s Law Firm s at IIT Jodhpur 2 List of Selected Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II 3 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II December 2025 Event View All Events Mar National Safety Week, 07-08 March 2026 Feb Hands-On Workshop on Recent Trends in Generative AI Models and Their Applications Mar Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based... Key Functionaries Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar Chairman, BoG Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal Director Student Life at IIT Jodhpur Student life at IIT Jodhpur is vibrant and enriching, offering a perfect blend of academic learning and extracurricular activities. With a focus on holistic development, the institute provides numerous opportunities for students to explore their interests and talents beyond the classroom. The institute also emphasizes the importance of community service and social responsibility, encouraging students to engage in various outreach programs and initiatives that benefit society. Discover More about Student Life at IITJ Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Institute Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Introduction to IIT Jodhpur Vision and Mission History Institute Reports Acts Statutes Institute Logo Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Statutory Bodies Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Introduction to Statutory Bodies IIT Council Board of Governors Finance Committee Senate Building Works Committee Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Key Functionaries Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Chairman, BoG Director Deputy Director Registrar Advisors Deans Associate Deans Professor In Charge Chairpersons Coordinators of Committees Officers Wardens Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Infrastructure Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Institute Sustainability Committee Sustainability Policy Campus Infrastructure Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Outreach Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Lecture Series Global Initiative for Academic Networks GIAN IMPRINT India Ishaan Vikaas Program Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan RAA Vigyan Jyoti Program Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Office of Director IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to The Office of Director The Office of the Director at the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is the central hub of leadership and governance, responsible for steering the institute towards its mission of excellence in education, research, and innovation. Our mission is to uphold and enhance the institutes core values, ensuring the highest standards of academic and operational integrity. The Director provides visionary leadership, setting strategic priorities and fostering a culture of continuous improvement and academic rigor. Our office oversees the implementation of policies, strategic planning, and resource allocation to ensure that IIT Jodhpur remains at the forefront of technological and scientific advancement. We work closely with faculty, staff, students, and external stakeholders to promote a collaborative and inclusive environment. Key initiatives include advancing interdisciplinary research, expanding global partnerships, and enhancing the overall student experience through comprehensive support services and state-of-the-art facilities. The Office of the Director is dedicated to fostering innovation and entrepreneurship, supporting initiatives that translate research into real-world applications and societal benefits. We also prioritize sustainability and social responsibility, integrating these principles into the institutes strategic framework. Our commitment to excellence is reflected in our continuous efforts to attract and retain outstanding talent, provide cutting-edge infrastructure, and cultivate a vibrant intellectual community. Director Of IIT Jodhpur Professor Avinash Kumar Agarwal took over the charge of Director, IIT Jodhpur on 1 May 2024. He obtained his Undergraduate Degree in Mechanical Engineering 1994 from Malviya Regional Engineering College, Jaipur and his MTech Energy, 1996 and PhD Energy, 1999 from the Indian Institute of Technology IIT Delhi. After his Post-Doctoral Fellowship at the ERC, UW, Madison, USA, he returned to India in 2001 and joined IIT Kanpur. He was a Visiting Professor at the University of Loughborough, UK; Photonics Institute, University of Vienna, Austria; Hanyang University and KAIST, South Korea. Prof. Agarwal is interested in research in IC engines, combustion, conventional and alternative fuels, Methanol DME Hydrogen HCNG fuelled engine development, LCA and TCO analyses, Fuel sprays, Lubricating oil tribology, optical diagnostics, laser ignition, HCCI, particulates and emission control, and large bore engines. He has developed laser-fired hydrogen and CNG engines in automotive sizes and developed the first electronic fuel injection system equipped with a locomotive engine for Indian Railways. Currently, Prof. Agarwal is developing Methanol and DME-fuelled engines vehicles for the automotive agricultural sectors. Read More Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 17 Oct :44 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Office of Deputy Director IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to The Office of Deputy Director The Office of the Deputy Director is dedicated to fostering innovation and entrepreneurship, supporting initiatives that translate research into real-world applications and societal benefits. We also prioritize sustainability and social responsibility, integrating these principles into the institutes strategic framework. Key Functionaries Professor Bhabani Kumar Satapathy Deputy Director Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 28 Aug :31 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Office of Registrar IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Office of Registrar As per the Act Statutes of the Institute, the Registrar is the custodian of records, the common seal, the funds of the Institute and such other property of the Institute as the Board shall commit to his charge. The Registrar shall act as the Secretary of the Statutory Bodies such as of the Board of Governors, the Finance Committee, the Senate and the Building Works Committee B WC . The Registrar shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by this Act and Statutes. The Registrar also assists the Director on all matters pertaining to the administration of the Institute. Key Functionaries Ankur Gupta Officiating Registrar Broad functions of the Office of Registrar 1. Constitution of the following Statutory Authorities, IIT Jodhpur: a Board of Governors b Finance Committee c Building Works Committee d Senate 2. Preparation of the Agenda and Minutes of the Statutory Bodies in coordination with respective Offices. View details Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 23 Dec :35 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Office of Administration IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to Office of Administration The Office of Administration at IIT Jodhpur ensures the efficient functioning of the Institutes administrative ecosystem through its various divisions activities directly or with the help of Professor In-Charges PICs given as follows: Establishment Non-Faculty - Managing service matters related to non-teaching staff. Non-Faculty Recruitment Handling end-to-end recruitment processes for non-teaching positions. Health Center Ensuring quality healthcare services for the campus community. Campus Security and Transport Overseeing campus safety and transport logistics. Logistics and Facilities Managing day-to-day campus services, infrastructure maintenance, and operational support. Green Cell Driving sustainability initiatives and environmental stewardship on campus. Visitors Hostels and Allied Services Coordinating hospitality services for guests, visitors, and campus events. Internal Audit Ensuring internal controls, compliance, and financial accountability. Store and Purchase Managing procurement processes and inventory control for efficient resource utilization. Administrative Manpower Hiring for the Project. The office functions with the aim of ensuring transparency in the process, efficiency, accountability, and excellence. Working closely with different offices sections, the office aims to deliver high-quality and timely services. It also frames and implements policies to foster a responsive culture to support institutional goals in education, development, and the well-being of the campus community. Dean Of Administration Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari Email : Phone: Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari assumed the office as the first Dean of Administration DOAD of IIT Jodhpur on 15th June 2024. DOAD position was created in 2024 as part of administrative reforms for efficient functioning. Prof. Tiwari is currently Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering. Prior to joining IIT Jodhpur as a faculty member in 2011, Prof. Tiwari had worked as a Postdoctoral Fellow in School of ECE at Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, USA, for 3 years . He had done his Ph.D. from EE Department, IIT Bombay from 2003 to 2008, during which he had also worked at NTU Singapore for about 7 months. Prof. Tiwari is a Senior Member of IEEE and serves as selected member of technical committees on Flexible Electronics and Displays and Electronic Materials of IEEE Electron Devices Society. Prof. Tiwari was Visvesvaraya Young Faculty Research Fellow of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India, for . He was part of Indian Delegate to attend Indo-German Frontiers of Engineering Symposium in Bremen, Germany 2022 organized by Alexander von Humboldt Foundation and Department of Science and Technology, followed by CONNECT Follow-up Programme Award by Humboldt Foundation and IGSTC-CONNECT Plus Award to visit and work in Germany in 2023. At IIT Jodhpur, he leads the Flexible Large Area Microelectronics FLAME Research Group, with focus towards biodegradable electronics. He was recently conferred with Institute Award for Research Excellence-2024, Senior Researcher Award Engineering from IIT Jodhpur. He has co-authored over 170 research articles, including more than 85 in journals of high repute with many in IEEE, ACS, and Wiley Journals. Read More Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 24 Dec :07 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Various Offices Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Office of Director Office of Deputy Director Office of Registrar Office of Administration Centre For Continuing Education CCE Office of Accounts Office of Academics Affairs Office of Establishment Non-Faculty Office of Students Digital Infrastructure Automation Office Of International Relations Office Of Research Development Office of Training and Placement Office Of Corporate Relations Office of Faculty Affairs Establishment E-I Office of Recruitment Non-Faculty Health Center Legal Cell Office Of Alumni Affairs Office of Executive Education Office of Estate Office of Infrastructure Engineering Office of Internal Audit Office of Publications Office of Stores Purchase RTI Cell Office of Security Transports Visitors Hostel Office of IITJ Connect PRO Office Of Library Green Cell Hindi Cell Office of Resources and Alumni DORA Office of Logistics Facilities LF Office of Vocational Training and Upskilling VTU Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Departments Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Bioscience Bioengineering Chemistry Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Schools Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! School Of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science School of Design School of Liberal Arts School of Management Entrepreneurship Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Centers Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Center for Education Technology CET Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETSD Central Research Facility CRF Center for Technology Foresight and Policy CTFP Manekshaw Centre Medical Technology Centre Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy RCRICE Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

IDRPs IDRCs Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! IDRPs IDRCs Centre For AIoT and Application Space Technology Digital Humanities Robotics and Mobility Systems Quantum Information Computation Centre for Digital Health Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to The Office of Academics Academics Facilitates: a Admissions Prospectus: preparation printing; Sale of Application Forms; Issue of Admit Cards for Admission Test; Setting of Test Papers; Conduct of Admission Test; Evaluation of Answer Scripts; Announcement of Results; Admission Interviews Counseling; and Issue of Admission Letters. b Programs Course Registration; Semester Schedule; Scheduling of Mid- End-semester examinations; Evaluation and Re-evaluation of exams; Grade records, Grade Cards, Transcripts; Academic discipline academic integrity; Campus Mentor Program S-SM-FM interaction ; Monitoring teaching and Faculty Member workload; and Student exchange; inter-areas of study transfer of students; Convocation; New Programs. Announcement Reporting of new PG students : 23-25 July 2025. Reporting of new UG Students : 28-29 July 2025. Commencement of classes : 31 July 2025. Offer letter for UG Students B.Tech. BS issued : 22 July onwards Fee link for UG Students B.Tech. BS will be activated : 22 July onwards Admission related query : 1136 1135 Academic Divisions Departments Schools IDRPs IDRCs Centers Quick Access Academic Regulations Transcripts Download Forms Convocation Scholarships Fee Structure Ph.D. Thesis Defense List of Holidays Conversion-Medium of Teaching Circulars Program Details Program Structure Program Curriculum Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Office of Executive Education IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Office of Executive Education: A Transformative Odyssey for Visionary Trailblazers Pioneering Learning Frontiers Dynamic, forward-thinking programs meticulously crafted to empower professionals with the acumen and foresight to spearhead innovation. Helmed by IIT Jodhpurs esteemed faculty and industry luminaries, our courses seamlessly weave groundbreaking research with practical applications, honing critical thinking and strategic mastery. Comprehensive Empowerment Tailored for ambitious professionals, our executive education offerings present an adaptable learning ecosystemspanning in-person, online, and hybrid modalities. Participants thrive in an intellectually stimulating milieu, fortified by seamless administrative facilitation and unparalleled access to cutting-edge resources, ensuring a profoundly enriching and frictionless educational voyage. Enduring Alliances Transcending conventional academia, our programs foster deep-rooted professional synergies. Enrolees become part of an illustrious nexus of industry stalwarts, visionaries, and policymakers, paving the way for transformative collaborations and unparalleled career avenues. Purposeful Heterogeneity We convene a confluence of professionals hailing from myriad sectors, regions, and disciplines, catalysing a rich tapestry of intellectual exchange. This cultivated diversity fortifies leadership prowess, augments cross-sector problem-solving, and equips participants to adeptly navigate the labyrinth of contemporary global challenges. Vision To make IIT Jodhpur a leading Indian Institute offering world-class Executive Education for working professionals and other aspirants. Mission To provide well curated programmes in line with industry requirements. Provide opportunity to learners via both offline and online modes. Develop partnership with online Edu service providers the best in the business . Draw industrys attention to IITJs academic activities. Provide up-to-date insights and knowledge to participants. Gain access to ongoing and upcoming industry practices. Industry connect and participate in industry meet. Generate Revenue streams. Executive Programmes Structure at a glance: Executive M.Tech Programs: 60 credits 1 credit 13 contact hours . Executive Postgraduate Diploma: 30 credits. Executive Postgraduate Certificate: 12-15 credits. Executive MBA Programs: 72 credits. Executive Undergraduate Programs: Year 1: Certification 40 credits , Year 2: Diploma 40 credits , Year 3: BSc Degree 40 credits , Year 4: BS Degree 40 credits . The Senate of the Institute has formulated a set of guidelines and rules to ensure high standard of performance as well as for smooth functioning of the academic programmes. Within this broad set of guidelines, subject to the approval of the Senate, different programmes can include additional academic requirements as deemed necessary for that programme. These academic programmes are continuously monitored by the Senate and make appropriate modifications improvements as and when necessary. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :48 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Engineering Science IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Engineering Science Message from Chairperson ES Undergratuate Commitee Engineering applications generally require multidisciplinary knowledge, spanning across various disciplines of engineering and sciences. Knowledge in humanities along with engineering and or sciences are also finding important applications. B.Tech. in Engineering Sciences ES is a unique bachelors degree program of IIT Jodhpur which aim to impart core knowledge in two targeted focus areas in Science and Engineering, to meet demands of emerging industrial and academic requirements. Any student admitted to IIT Jodhpur can opt for B.Tech. in Engineering science post 1st year. Students will be required to complete core courses of ES, in the first two years of study whereas they can outline their own curriculum, in the guidance of faculty advisor, in the form of electives for the remaining two years, from courses across disciplines of engineering, science, and humanities. In line with regular B.Tech. programs, students can also use 10 credits out of stipulated electives and 10 additional credits to earn minor specialization as an add-on to the B.Tech. degree. The flexibility of curriculum selection, as per students capabilities and interest with faculty guidance, aims to impartsufficient knowledge to the students, to be future ready professionals. Institute Background and Vision Innovations, Scientific Discoveries, and New Technologies are the essential foundations of the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur. The institute focuseson building solid and in-depth knowledge in the engineering domains and strongly encourages interdisciplinary learning. The courses offered are defined such that it enhances the imagination and creativity of the students to identify and solve new problems in society. Our endeavour is to build an atmosphere for uninhibited ideas.The institute offers 9 B.Tech programs: Computer Science Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Engineering Sciences, Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, Mechanical Engineering, Bioengineering, Materials Engineering, Chemical Engineering and Civil and Infrastructure Engineering.The institute also empowers students by allowing them to avail specializations, minors, and elective courses. Program Background Engineering Science is a unique branch of engineering designed to cater to the upcoming demand of the industry and research, training the best of students to have a strong foundation in every field along with a specialization in their topic of interest. Our institute is one of the primary institutes offering an Engineering Science program. This programme is a four-year course. The first two years are devoted to topics which we believe all Engineering undergraduates should study. In the third and fourth years, the students have the opportunity to study any two complementary disciplines by drafting their own course structure. This fosters multi-disciplinary thinking and integrated application of engineering, scientific and mathematical principles in young students. The students can specialise minor in any field as well. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 16 Oct :57 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Programs Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Bachelor of Technology BS Program Master of Technology Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Integrated Teacher Education Programme ITEP Executive Programs MBA Masters of Design Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur SURAJ Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Admission to Postgraduate Programs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To Admission in Post Graduate Programs Doctor of Philosophy Programs Core Sciences Departments Bioscience Bioengineering Chemistry Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Materials Engineering Physics Schools School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science SAIDE School of Design SOD School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Management Entrepreneurship SME Centres Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETSD Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics CMCE Center for Internet of Things IoT Applications Center for Education Technology CET Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy Center for Technology Foresight and Policy CTFP IDRPs IDRCs Digital Humanities Quantum Information Computation Robotics Mobility Systems Smart Healthcare Space Science Technologies Master of Technology Programs M.Tech. Bioscience Bioengineering M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems M.Tech. Communication Systems M.Tech. Microelectronics and VLSI M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences M.Tech. Advanced Manufacturing and Design M.Tech. Thermofluids Engineering M.Tech. Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies M.Tech. Materials Engineering M.Tech. Chemical Engineering M.Tech. Environmental Engineering M.Tech. Energy Infrastructure M.Tech. Bridge Engineering M.Tech. Augmented and Virtual Reality M.Tech. Robotics M.Tech. Quantum Technologies Master of Science Programs M.Sc. Chemistry M.Sc. Mathematics M.Sc. Physics M.Sc. Digital Humanities M.Sc. Computational Social Science MS by Research Programs M.S. by Research Next Generation AI M.S. by Research Computational Economics M.S. by Research Intelligent Infrastructure M.S. by Research Precision Health Integrative Medicine Information related to admission into these programs is posted here, regularly. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Admission Links Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Admission Links JEE Advanced JEE Advance Brochure GATE JAM M.Sc. M.TECH. Ph.D. ITEP STUDY IN INDIA SII PMRF ICCR FELLOWSHIP GIAN M.S. By Research OMICS MBA Direct Admission Portal for International Student ASEAN Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Digital Infrastructure Automation Computer Center The Digital Infrastructure Automation DIA commonly known as Computer Center of the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur stands as a testament to the institutions commitment to cutting-edge research, innovation, and technological development. As a pivotal hub for computing and information technology, the Computer Center has played a crucial role in shaping the academic landscape and the advancement of the institute. Since its inception, the Computer Center has undergone remarkable development and growth, aligning itself with advancements in the field of computing. Equipped with state-of-the-art infrastructure and a team of highly skilled professionals, the center has fostered an environment conducive to research and learning. Read More Quick Access ERP Portal Private Cloud Moodle Lab Booking System DIA Verticals Computer Center Network Cybersecurity ERP Automation Objective The centers primary objective is to provide computational resources, technical support, and expertise to students, faculty members, and researchers across various disciplines. Its advanced computing facilities include high-performance computing clusters, AI supercomputers and specialized software. These resources empower the IIT Jodhpur community to undertake complex computational tasks, simulate intricate models, and conduct data-intensive research. Learn More Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :16 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Health Center IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Health Center, IIT Jodhpur The Health Centre HC has been started at the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur from 15 June 2017. IIT Jodhpur provides round-the-clock health care facilities to Students, Faculty Staff Members and their dependents, also other residents and working staff of the Institute. This fully equipped and self-sufficient facility is run under the supervision of Professor-in-charge Health Center PIC-HC and Medical Officers MO with advice provided by the Medical Service Users Committee MSUC . Presently, the following facilities are available at the Health Centre HC : Medical Officers 24 x 7 , Regular visits of specialist doctors Psychiatrist, Gynae ologist, Paediatrician, ENT, Medicine, Orthopaedician , Nursing Officers, Male Female 24 x7 , Diagnostic Laboratory, Physiotherapy Unit, In-house Pharmacy, 24 x7 Emergency Room and Daycare Room, Separate Male and Female Wards and Isolation Rooms, 01 ACLS Advanced Cardiac Life Support Ambulance and 01 BLS Basic Life Support Ambulance, Ayurvedic, Homeopathic and Naturopathic and other consultants visit twice a week. Hospital Tie-Ups and Medical Support Network In addition to on-campus healthcare, IIT Jodhpur has established formal agreements with several leading hospitals to ensure priority treatment for its students, faculty, staff, and their registered dependents. These include 1 Goyal Hospital and Research Centre, 2 MediPulse Hospital, 3 ASG Eye Hospital, 4 Vasundhara Hospital, and 5 AIIMS Jodhpur. The Institute Health Center HC plays a central role in coordinating and supervising the treatment of patients admitted to these empanelled hospitals. This ensures continuity of care and assistance during hospitalization. Extension of Medical Services Visitors to the Institute may access basic healthcare services through the Health Center during their stay on campus, upon request. In emergency situations, medical services are extended to non-IIT Jodhpur community members residing in the campus area to provide timely first aid and support. Arrangements are routinely made for specialist doctor visits on the campus Psychiatrist, Gynaecologist, Paediatrician, ENT Specialists, Endocrinologist, Orthopedic Specialist on a weekly basis. The Health Center also organizes various Health Awareness, Medical Screening, Vaccination Camps and Blood donation camps in coordination with Hospitals and other Agencies. The Health Center is the first point of contact for any medical needs, and it aims to cater provide primary health care to the students, staff, faculties, and their dependent s in the campus. Medical Officers on Campus The following Institute Medical Officers are available on campus in rotating shifts, ensuring 24 7 medical coverage for the IITJ community: Dr. Anukriti Kumari Dr. Bhuvnesh Kumar Dr. Gaurav Kumar Viswas Dr. Hemant Joshi Dr. Neha Sharma Dr. Prashant Sankhla These officers are committed to addressing the general healthcare needs of students, staff, and faculty at any time of day. Access to Sexual and Reproductive Healthcare Sexual and reproductive health services, including education and counselling, are provided by the visiting Gynaecologists and Medical Officers. These services are essential to supporting the overall well-being and awareness of the campus community. Visiting Physicians and Specialists One MD Physician is available daily except Sundays from 3:30 PM to 7:00 PM at the Health Center. Specialist doctors from various disciplines visit the HC weekly, including: Psychiatry Gynaecology Paediatrics ENT Internal Medicine Orthopaedics Note: Prior information regarding specialist visits is communicated via official email notifications. Rate list: 1 CGHS Rate List Download file : 10598 KB 2 Ayurvedic Medicine List Download file: 14 KB Results: Adv. No. IITJ RD I I PHC DOAD 20240227 2025 154 Staff Nurse On Project 1175 KB Adv. No. IITJ RD I I PHC DOAD 20240227 2025 155 Physiotherapist On Project 1163 KB Shortlisting Status: Adv. No. IITJ RD I I PHC DOAD 20240227 2025 154 Staff Nurse On Project 1647 KB Adv. No. IITJ RD I I PHC DOAD 20240227 2025 155 Physiotherapist On Project 1201 KB Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 28 Jan :26 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Fab Facility IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Artificial Intelligence of Things AIOT Fab Facility Artificial Intelligence of Things AIOT is a new technology vertical that has leveraged the convergence of Artificial Intelligence AI , the Internet of Things IoT , along with mobile communication technologies, and has led to a massive growth in the intelligent devices that are connected together to solve problems collaboratively. Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT initiative at IIT Jodhpur aims to create facilities for End-to-End Design, Development, Prototyping, and Delivery of AIOT systems for start-ups, MSMEs, and end-user industries, catering to applications of Industry 4.0, agriculture, healthcare, infrastructure, energy, environment, and water management. Two important facilities are created for the development of AIOT technologies by faculty and Students of IIT Jodhpur, with participation of industry and other academic partners AIoT Fab Facility The Fab is equipped with a set of instruments for the development characterization of sensors of various kinds that are the foundation of an IoT ecosystem, providing devices with the ability to collect data. The Fab Facility is undergoing further updates with the addition of new instruments. The AIoT Fab also focuses on the development of new sensing materials and targets applications based on photonics, biotechnology, and solar cells. It also envisions developing flexible sensors that can be used for making wearable devices, along with other inertial sensors, utilising MEMS technology. AIoT Electronic Manufacturing Unit EMU The AIoT EMU Facility is to be equipped with EDA CAD software for designing targeted sensors, signal conditioning interface circuit, fabless VLSI FPGA design, PCB design. The EMU facility will also house Chip assembly packaging, Electronic component assembly, along with hardware and software platforms that are required for developing IoT-enabled AI applications. The EMU will also facilitate the commercialization of products with facilities of prototyping, limited manufacturing, and pilot production, in line with stakeholders strategy direction. The AIoT initiative at IIT Jodhpur is also supported by the AIOT - Innovation Hub Foundation IHF , which is working as a joint venture Section-8 company between RISL RajCOMP Info Services Ltd , JCKIF Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Foundation , and IIT Jodhpur. Vision To be a nationally leading hub for innovation, research, and education in Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT by integrating advanced semiconductor fabrication, smart sensor systems, and intelligent computing. The AIoT Fab Facility envisions enabling the next generation of intelligent, connected technologies empowering academia, startups, and industry with state-of-the-art infrastructure for design, prototyping, and testing . We aspire to drive transformative impact through: Development of indigenous smart sensor technologies , including gas sensors, biosensors, and neuromorphic devices. Scalable prototyping of MEMS NEMS electronics. Cross-disciplinary collaboration bridging materials science, electronics, AI, and IoT . Serving as a training and incubation ground for future technologists and researchers in Indias AIoT ecosystem. Our long-term goal is to catalyze a self-reliant semiconductor and sensor ecosystem in India , aligned with national missions such as Digital India, Make in India , and Semiconductor Mission . The AIoT Fab Artificial Intelligence of Things Fabrication Facility is part of the AIoT Innovation Hub at IIT Jodhpur. It is a state-of-the-art facility for developing, fabricating, and deploying advanced AIoT systems. Equipped with tools for creating MEMS sensors, associated electronics, and other intelligent systems. Provides an ecosystem for faculty, students, and industry partners to co-create AIoT technologies and products. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 29 Dec :13 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Central Research Facility CRF IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Central Research Facility CRF The state-of-the-art central instrumentation facility of IIT Jodhpur which was established in the year 2018 has been designated as the Central Research Facility CRF . The CRFhas an endeavour to provide advanced scientific instrumentation service in the multidisciplinary field of research to the undergraduate, graduate, Ph.D students and the faculties of this esteemed institute as well as researcher from other institutes across the country. At present a total number of 93 high end instruments are under CRFfacility. Currently, The space allotted for CRFfacility Room No. 111 112, ground floor, Chemistry building houses 22 equipment including various sophisticated instruments such as 500 MHz NMR, Single Crystal XRD, Powder XRD, AFM, SEM, PPMS Dynacool, SQUID, Surface area analyzer, DSC, TGA etc. Rest of the equipment under CRFfacility are located at various departments of the institute. The overall day to day activities and the policy of the centre is determined by a committee of faculty of this institute. The CRFcommittee appointed a faculty in charge for each of the instruments under the centre for smooth running and maintenance the equipment. Further, CRFfacility at IIT Jodhpur imparts an opportunity towards its users for accessing various latest and advanced instruments persuasively via a transparent online booking portal. Thus CRFfacility contributes its users significantly to publish their research findings in internationally peer reviewed journals. IITJ CRFfacility welcomes external users from all national institutes and R D organizations for accessing this facility on a minimal chargeable basis. The Main objectives of CRF facility: Advanced scientific instrumentation service to researchers from both academic and industrial organizations. R D for advanced scientific instrumentation. Technology development and innovation in the area of scientific instrumentation. Encouraging start-ups for scientific instrumentation. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 23 Feb :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Office of Research Development IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Office Of Research Development R D The Office of R D provides specialized administrative and managerial support for the operation of Sponsored Research Projects, Consultancy Projects and other R D related activities of the Institute. The Office of R D facilitates interaction with national and international agencies supporting research development. Also, it promotes academia-industry interactions and collaboration with larger R D laboratories, and liaises between Institute and funding agencies. Further, it supports Faculty Members in filing of patents and documenting IPR generated through research activity of the Institute. The Office of R D facilitates the following: a Management of Projects Registration of Sponsored, Consulting and Institute Projects, raising Invoice Grants-in-aid bill, receiving funds, prepare utilization certificates; Appointment, extension and resignations of Project Staff Members; payment of salary; Work related to Fellowships; Project related purchases, imports and their payments; Management of temporary advances to PIs and Project Staff Members, settlement of advances; Payment for work assignments; and Preparation of cheques, bank reconciliation, accounts preparation, management of investments. b Management of Office Preparation and publishing of booklets hard and soft copies related to Office of R D, newsletter; Institutes research magazine; Developing maintaining database of R D contacts in Industry, Academia and R D Organisations in India and abroad; Designing and preparing R D flyers of different Departments and laboratories of the Institute; and Managing MOUs, IPRs, Corporate Communications, Events and Relationships. Latest News Live Updates Applications for International Mobility Research Grant IMRG are Invited from the new faculty members who are yet to complete 3 years from the date of joining at IIT Jodhpur. Last date of submission of the IMRG application is 31 December 2025. Last date of submission of the IMRG application is Extended till 15 january 2026 Click here for details 3287 KB , Click here for Application Form No 30.1 and 30.3 Travel within India from Project Fund As per the Office Order No. IITJ REG 2025-26 73 dated 30th July 2025, it is mandatory to obtain prior approval from the Dean of Research and Development DORD through the Head before undertaking any travel within India funded by the project. Inviting Quotation from Banks for the Investment of Funds of IIT Jodhpur 939 KB , View All News Quick Access Notification Projects Information Forms Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 04 Feb :49 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Company Oversight Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! TIH-iHub Drishti Marudhara Foundation Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Foundation JCKIF Technology Innovation and Start-up Center IITJ-TISC DRDO Industry Academia Centre of Excellence IIT Jodhpur DIA-CoE IITJ Technology Park Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Office of Students IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Office of Students The Office of Students acts as a link between students, student facilities, faculty and the administration of IIT Jodhpur. The sole motive of the Office is to create an atmosphere that promotes personal and academic development of students by organizing various activities and programs and providing them necessary support, thereby enhancing the overall student experience during their tenure at IIT Jodhpur. The Office is headed by the Associate Dean Students and its activities are coordinated by Assistant Registrar Students , Superintendent Students , Project Staff and Officers. Scope Since its inception, the Office of Students has been working extensively towards integration of activities by streamlining various processes. The core purviews of the Office of Students may be categorized under the following:- Administration : The Office corresponds with the Ministries Government agencies regarding various scholarships, workshops, events, conferences etc; disbursal of Teaching Assistantship, conducting orientation program for new students, issuance of various certificates namely Bonafide certificate, No Objection Certificate, Character Certificate etc. Academics : The Office has launched two non-graded credit courses on Social Connect Responsibility and Performing Arts from the academic year . The aim of launching these courses is to help the incoming students to connect socially and explore their potential that will in turn shape their overall personality Student Activities : Student Activities that form a major domain under the Office range from but are not limited to, Gymkhana Activities, Counseling Services, Alumni Relations and Placements and Internships. Outreach Programs : Various outreach programs are organized by the Office with the aim of creating awareness about various Government Private schemes that can be beneficial to the students. A few recent outreach programs to mention are; the CII workshop on Prime Minister's Fellowship for Doctoral Research and the visit discussion with Mr. Naval Jit Kapoor, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs regarding scholarship schemes and grievance redressal. Responsibilities The responsibilities of Office of Students include the following:- Disbursement of Teaching Assistantship, providing guidance for students regarding various state and national level scholarships, fee remissions for SC ST EWS students. Effectuating various workshops, non-graded courses etc. Coordinating and supervising student gymkhana activities under 7 different societies. Enthusing students to conduct and participate in cultural events. Rendering Support to students in organizing various festivals like IGNUS, Varchas, Nimble, Spandan and various other cultural literary events like SPICMACAY programs. Facilitating and overseeing Student Election process, and working with the Elected Students' Representatives on various issues concerning the students during their period of stay at IIT Jodhpur Managing student hostels and mess dining facilities, and other amenities within the campus Guiding and preparing students for internships placements. Organizing training programs to make the students employable and equip them with the skills essential to build a rewarding career for themselves. Constantly working towards student's wellbeing through counseling services and helping them to achieve higher levels of maturity and motivation Key Functionaries Ankita Sharma Dean of Students Affairs DOSA Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Feb :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

FAQs: Applicants Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! FAQs: Applicants Welcome to the section on Frequently Asked Questions. Potential applicants to Faculty Positions have asked many questions. A few of such Frequently Asked Questions are addressed here, and are pertaining to the following categories: Recruitment Professional Development IIT Jodhpur Surroundings Life IIT Jodhpur Please send your unanswered questions to Coordinator Faculty at . Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Members Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Faculty Members The Institute has appointed Faculty Members with background in different disciplines. They are organised through the following academic Departments, Schools, IDRPs, and Centers: Departments Bioscience Bioengineering Chemistry Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Physics Engineering Schools School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science SAIDE School of Design SOD School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Management Entrepreneurship SME Centres Center for Education Technology for Education CETE Center for Technology Foresight and Policys CTFP Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETSD IDRPs IDRCs Centre for AIoT and Application Space Technology Digital Humanities Robotics Mobility Systems Quantum Information and Computation IITJ-AIIMSJ Medical Technologies Center Centre for Digital Health Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Scholars-in-Residence Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Scholars-in-Residence The Institute invites distinguished academics and industrialists to the Institute. The interactions with these accomplished persons visiting the Institute will provide discussion opportunities to the young primary stakeholders of the Institute namely the Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students towards resolving their unanswered questions in academics, careers and life. Currently, the Institute has below mentioned Scholars-in-Residence. A Departments Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics B IDRPs IDRCs Robotics and Mobility Systems RMS Digital Humanities Smart Healthcare IoT Applications Quantum Information Computation Space Science Technology Centre for Digital Health CDH C Schools School of Management Entrepreneurship SME School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science SAIDE School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Design D Centers CETSD CTFP CETE Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Adjunct Faculty Members Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Adjunct Faculty Members The Institute invites academics and industrialists of standing to the Institute to engage with the young Faculty Members and Students of the Institute, in teaching-learning and research-innovation activities. Currently, the Institute has below mentioned Adjunct Faculty Members. A Departments Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics B IDRPs IDRCs Robotics and Mobility Systems RMS Digital Humanities Smart Healthcare IoT Applications Quantum Information Computation Space Science Technology Centre for Digital Health CDH C Schools School of Management Entrepreneurship SME School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science SAIDE School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Design D Centers CETSD CTFP CETE RCRICE Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Visiting Faculty Members Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Visiting Faculty Members The Institute is keen to seek services of superannuated Faculty Members from IITs IISc and other reputed Institutes Universities in India and abroad. Currently, the following Visiting Faculty Members are associated with the Institute. A Departments Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics B IDRPs IDRCs Robotics and Mobility Systems RMS Digital Humanities Smart Healthcare IoT Applications Quantum Information Computation Space Science Technology Centre for Digital Health CDH C Schools School of Management Entrepreneurship SME School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science SAIDE School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Design D Centers CETSD CTFP CETE Medical Technologies Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Why Pursue a Career IIT Jodhpur Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Why Pursue a Career IIT Jodhpur There are many reasons to choose IIT Jodhpur to build a career. A few salient ones are: Scholarship through teaching-learning and research-creation drive us. Faculty Members pursue their own teaching and research interests. IIT Jodhpur invested significantly and acquired state of the art material characterization sophisticated instrumentation. IIT Jodhpur has chosen to make select impactful technological contributions to the nation. This umbrella technology development approach involves end-to-end work of Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students with backgrounds in Sciences, Humanities Social Sciences, and Engineering. The select domains include: Arid Zone Technologies: Solar Energy, Water, and Smart Buildings; Critical Technologies: Materials, Components and Systems; Health Care Technologies: Diagnostic devices, and Biological solutions to health care; and Automotive Technologies: Commercial Vehicles In July 2014, IIT Jodhpur launched all new Industry Immersion B.Tech. Program - a flagship technical educational program that will enable IIT Jodhpur Students and Faculty Members to keep meet the needs of Technology Industry and Nation. It is a blend of classroom instructions in Academia and shop floor experience in the Industry, through immersion inside the Technology Industry. Learning-by-doing, experiential and cooperative learning, working on live assignments under the tutelage of industry professionals, and engaging faculty members and students in joint R D projects with Industry, are some of the key features of Blended B.Tech. Program. This model is being actively considered for Masters and Doctoral Programs also. Jodhpur is secluded adequately from the burden of a megapolis or a metropolitan city and hence offers the much needed quiet to do focused academic work. Also, the city of Jodhpur is itself an active tourist city that is friendly, but quiet. IIT Jodhpur is working towards a state-of-the-art permanent campus located 20 km away from the center of the city. City of Jodhpur is not a big city. With just about 12.7 Lakh Population a sizeable part of it is through Military and Paramilitary Forces , the city is calm and friendly. One striking feature of the city is that there is No Traffic Jam at any time of the day in any part of the city!! Jodhpur is well connected by air and trains to Delhi and Mumbai, and by train and road to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Udaipur, Jaisalmer, and Ahmedabad. The city of Jodhpur has a number of other prominent academic and R D organizations in addition to the Jai Narayan Vyas University formerly Jodhpur University . These include: All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, National Law University, Jodhpur, National Institute of Fashion Technology, Jodhpur, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, Jodhpur, Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur, Footwear Design and Development Institute, Jodhpur, and Defence Laboratory, Jodhpur DRDO . Of these, the first six are all new, and there are opportunities for appointment of Spouse of a Faculty Member, based on his her qualifications and relevant experience. Jodhpur is a city of Lawyers and Chartered Accountants. Especially with the High Court of the State of Rajasthan located in the city, Jodhpur has ample professional opportunities for spouses with backgrounds in these subjects. Some things we do for our new Faculty Members The Institute will: Provide transit accommodation, immediately on arrival; Reimburse Telephone bills up to Rs. 1,500 per month, Medical expenses of self and dependents, Education allowance for first two children up to Class 12, and Relocation expenses up to Rs.1.5 Lakhs from any place in India or abroad; Offer Research Initiation Grant within the initial period of joining, up to Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty Members in Sciences and Engineering, and up to Rs. 5 Lakhs to those in Humanities and Social Sciences; and Cumulative Professional Development Allowance of Rs. 3 Lakhs once every 3 years; Contribute towards New Pension Scheme of Government of India; Reward up to Rs 10,000 - per month for three years for INSA Young Scientist and INAE Young Engineer awardees; and Facilitate soft loan. Please Click Here for a PDF version of this section. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Master of Business Administration School of Management Entrepreneurship IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process How to Apply Fee Structure Student Intake CAT Cut-offs FAQs Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

M.Sc. Computational Social Science AY 2026-27 Admission to Postgraduate Programs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! M.Sc. Computational Social Science AY 2026-27 Closing Date Of Application: 10th March, 2026 extended till16 March, 2026 Announcement of Shortlisting result for test and interview: 20th March, 2026 Declaration Of Results: End April 2026 Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application form online: Regular: Sports Quota: Advertisement Details: Download file : 247 KB List of Provisionally Shortlisted, Selected and Waitlisted candidates for admission in PG programmes can be seen on the webpages of respective Departments IDRPs Schools Centres In case of any query, the applicants may contact to the respective Departments IDRPs Schools Centres where they are applying to. Contact details of department can be access by clicking here . Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Introduction to IIT Jodhpur Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Introduction to IIT Jodhpur The Tree of Knowledge and Technology at IIT Jodhpur Campus Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was established in 2008 to foster technology education and research in India. The Institute is committed to technological thought and action to benefit the economic development of the country. Scholarship in teaching and learning, scholarship in research and creative accomplishments, and relevance to industry are the three driving forces at IIT Jodhpur. IIT Jodhpur functions from its sprawling residential permanent campus of 852 acres on National Highway 65, north-northwest of Jodhpur towards Nagaur. This campus is meticulously planned and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics simple yet profound. The Institute is committed to a multidisciplinary approach to technology development. Hence, it has established state-of-the-art laboratories for basic research and has organised its academic degree programs through departments, while coordinating research activities through Centers for Technologies. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All Research Highlights Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All Research Highlights Sr. No. Description 1 Dr. Suraj Srivastava, Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering, became a Fellow of The Institution of Electronics Telecommunication Engineers IETE - FIETE 2 Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method 3 Structure and exfoliation mechanism of two-dimensional boron nanosheets D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nanoarchitectonics and Recent Progresses 5 Research paper published by Dr. Sushmita Jha in Scientific Reports 6 Language Independent Speech Generation System 7 A Novel Multipath Mitigation Technique for GNSS Signals in Urban Scenarios 8 Rajasthani Clay Catalytic Converters for Automobiles 9 Optical Field Design for Solar Thermal Applications Archive Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

All Research Highlights Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All Research Highlights Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method Tittle of the paper: Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method PHYSICAL REVIEW B 110, Dr. Devendra Singh Negi Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Jodhpur Description: The functional nano magnetic materials are indispensable for advanced electronic applications. As the nanotechnology is rapidly advancing, the size of these functional materials is also shrinking in the same proportion. Therefore, to further develop and engineers the nano magnetic materials we require a technique which can probe or image the magnetism at atomic scale sensitivity. The transmission electron microscopy TEM is one of the important instruments, which can image and quantify the magnetism at atomic scale. Recently developed electron magnetic circular dichroism EMCD and differential phase contrast DPC methods in TEM has enabled to access the electromagnetic information of single atom. The DPC method in TEM probes the elastic deflection of the incident convergent electron probe with the electromagnetic filed of the atom. The quantum of deflection is in proportion with the charge density or electromagnetic field of the atoms. Therefore, DPC allows to image the charge density, electromagnetism field at atomic scale. This method also enhances the imaging contrast and allow to image the light atoms very efficiently. In this work we have developed a new method in TEM to image the magnetism at atomic scale with energy filtered electron in DPC.The energy filtered electron in TEM are the core-loss electron, which excite the core electron of an atom to unoccupied energy levels. These electron carries the information of the magnetism of the atoms. Our develop method shows that, the sensitivity of the inelastic electron is two orders of magnitude then the conventional elastic counterpart. Interestingly, the energy-filtered DPC can probe the magnetism along the probe direction. Therefore, this novel approach offers a pathway to image the in-plane and out-of-plane magnetism simultaneously at atomic scale. Our work introduces a new paradigm to image the 3-dimensional magnetism at atomic scale sensitivity in TEM. Figure1. Schematic diagram showing the EF-DPC method in TEM. A converged electron probe excites the core-electron of atom to higher energy level. These inelastic electron carries the magnetism information of the atom, which subsequently forms the diffraction pattern. These diffraction patterns are detected by the DPC detector to image the magnetic field of the atom. Figure 2. EF-DPC of two Mn atom in LaMnAsO unit cell, showing the directional component of magnetism, referred as Sx, Sy, Sz and corresponding electron deflection in mili-radian unit. The out-of-plane magnetic field and magnetic signal shows the vortex at the centre of the Mn atoms. Article by: Dr. Devendra Singh Negi Link : Research domain: Transmission electron microscopy, Magnetism Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All Research Highlights Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All Research Highlights Structure and exfoliation mechanism of two-dimensional boron nanosheets Tittle of the paper: Structure and exfoliation mechanism of two-dimensional boron nanosheets Nature Communications 2024 15:6122, Dr. Pranay Ranjan Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Jodhpur Description: Exfoliation of two-dimensional 2D nanosheets from three-dimensional 3D non-layered, non-van der Waals crystals represents an emerging strategy for materials engineering that could significantly increase the library of 2D materials. Yet, the exfoliation mechanism in which nanosheets are derived from crystals that are not intrinsically layered remains unclear. Here, we show that planar defects in the starting 3D boron material promote the exfoliation of 2D boron sheetsby combining liquid-phase exfoliation, aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and density functional theory calculations. We demonstrate that 2D boron nanosheets consist of a planar arrangement of icosahedral sub-units cleaved along the 001 planes of -rhombohedral boron. Correspondingly, intrinsic stacking faults in 3D boron form parallel layers of faulted planes in the same orientation as the exfoliated nanosheets, reducing the 001 cleavage energy. Planar defects represent a potential engineerable pathway for exfoliating 2D sheets from 3D boron and, more broadly, the other covalently bonded materials. Figure 1: Liquid phase exfoliation of boron. a Schematic depiction of products through liquid-phase exfoliation from van der Waals vdW crystals, isotropic polycrystalline materials, and boron. b Scanning electron microscopy SEM images of the starting boron material: Sample A Sigma-Aldrich , Sample B Alfa-Aesar , and Sample C Yamanaka Advanced Materials . c Converged beam transmission electron microscopy TEM image, and corresponding high-angle annular darkfield HAADF scanning transmission electron microscopy STEM image of 2D boron sheets suspended on a holey carbon TEM grid. Figure 2: Role of planar defects in the exfoliation mechanism of boron. a TEM BF image of 3D boron Sample C with a high density of planar defects in the bottom right crystal grain 2. b C-BF STEM image of -rhombohedral boron projected along the 001 zone-axis showing a sequence of parallel planar defects, including twins and stacking faults dashed lines indicate the defect plane . The icosahedral columns are represented as red-ringed circles for easier visualization of the symmetry breaking due to the defects. The magnified images of the twin boundary and stacking fault SF , boxed in light blue and red, respectively, are shown on the right with the faulted plane marked by the black arrows. c Model of the unit cell projected in the 001 depicting the atoms red circles forming the defect planes. d Density functional theory DFT calculated energies for the formation of the 001 -I and 001 -II surfaces from the pristine crystal and from the planar defects. e Schematic of the defect-mediated exfoliation process viewed from the 110 orientation . The icosahedral columns are represented as red-ringed circles, stacking faults as dashed lines, and symmetry breaking of the crystal as solid lines. The black arrows represent the cleaving of the crystal from the stacking faults Article by: Dr. Pranay Ranjan Link : Research domain: 2D Materials, Borophene Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All Research Highlights Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All Research Highlights 2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nanoarchitectonics and Recent Progresses Tittle of the paper: 2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nanoarchitectonics and Recent Progresses Small , Dr. Pranay Ranjan Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Jodhpur Description: Water polluted by toxic chemicals due to waste from chemical pharmaceuticals and harmful microbes such as E. Coli bacteria causes several fatal diseases; and therefore, water ltration is crucial for accessing clean and safe water necessary for good health. Conventional water ltration technologies include activated carbon lters, reverse osmosis, and ultraltration. However, they face several challenges, including high energy consumption, fouling, limited selectivity, ineciencies in removing certain contaminants, dimensional control of pores, and structural chemical changes at higher thermal conditions and upon prolonged usage of water lter. Recently, the advent of 2D materials such as graphene, BN, MoS 2 , MXenes, and so on opens new avenues for advanced water ltration systems. This review delves into the nano-architectonics of 2D materials for water ltration applications. The current state of water ltration technologies is explored, the inherent challenges they face are outlines, and the unique properties and advantages of 2D materials are highlighted. Furthermore, the scope of this review is discussed, which encompasses the synthesis, characterization, and application of various 2D materials in water ltration, providing insights into future research directions and potential industrial applications Figure 1: Existing membrane technology concerning the structure of membranes Figure 2: Water purication techniques. Article by: Dr. Pranay Ranjan Link : Research domain: 2D Materials, Membrane, Water Filtration Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

CAT Cut-offs School of Management Entrepreneurship IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! CAT Cut-offs Sr.No. Admission CAT Cut-offs 1 MBA Admission 2024-26 View 26 KB 2 MBA Admission 2025-27 View 145 KB 3 MBA Admission 2026-28 View 157 KB Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :44 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All News Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All News Sr. No. Description 1 Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal 2 Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry RSC 3 Congratulations to Dr. Sandip Murarka for receiving the prestigious 'Humboldt Research Fellowship for Experienced Researchers' 4 Ph.D. student Mr. Prabhanshu Yadav won the Best Paper Award in IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications Systems ANTS - Research Seminar by Dr. Puneet Sharma, on 01 Dec'25 at 4:30 PM 6 Prof. Ram Prakash from the Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur has been elected as the President of the Plasma Science Society of India Faculty Member Receives Excellence in Doctoral Research Award from IIT Roorkee 8 Dr. Sudhir Kumar Hota Receives the NOSTAnthem Biosciences Best Thesis Award Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan awarded IETE - Prof K Sreenivasan Memorial Award 2025 for outstanding performance in teaching 10 Dr. Shrutidhara Sarma . Elected Member of The National Academy of Sciences, India NASI 11 Dr. Shrutidhara Sarma Receives Prestigious Women in Sensors Wiley Award at FLEPS Congratulations to Dr. Sandip Murarka for CRSI Bronze Medal 13 Dr. Suraj Srivastava, Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering, became a Fellow of The Institution of Electronics Telecommunication Engineers IETE - FIETE 14 Ms. Beauty Kumari, a PhD student at BSBE, has received a Travel Bursary award from the Indian Academy of Biomedical Science Archive Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Research Highlights Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Research Highlights Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal Impact Factor 13 Nanostructured porous silicon biosensor and smartphone integrated ELISA for sensitive detection of breast cancer biomarker, N. Gupta, S. Chattopadhyay, B. S. Kumar, A. K. Dhamne,S. Dhanekar , H. Singh, Chemical Engineering, vol. 528, pp. pages , 2026. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All News Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All News Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal Dr. Sandip Murarka has been conferred the prestigious CRSI Bronze Medal by the Chemical Research Society of India CRSI at the recently concluded 36 CRSI National Symposium in Chemistry, held at Dibrugarh University. This distinguished recognition acknowledges his significant contributions to the fields of organic synthesis and catalysis. IIT Jodhpur congratulates Dr. Murarka on this well-deserved honor and wishes him continued success in his future endeavors. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All News Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All News Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry RSC This recognition reflects his significant contributions to organic synthesis and catalysis and brings distinction to both the Department of Chemistry and the Institute. We wish him every success in this important editorial role. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All Announcements Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All Announcements Sr. No. Title 1 List of Selected Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II 2 Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate s Law Firm s at IIT Jodhpur 3 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II December Empanelment of Advocate s Law Firm s for IIT Jodhpur 6 Recruitment for the post of Registrar 7 Information regarding the Reporting of the new B.Tech. students for AY 2025-26, I Semester 8 M.Tech. Program in BRIDGE ENGINEERING 9 Apply Online For Faculty Positions 10 Advt No.: IITJ O E-II 2024-25 Non-Academic Staff AY 2025-26 SEMESTER I Ph.D. ADMISSIONS Round II MME 12 Advertisement for the post of Director, DIA-CoE, IIT Jodhpur Announcements on old website Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

List of Provisionally Selected Candidates Admission to Postgraduate Programs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! List of Provisionally Selected Candidates AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II December 2025 Programme PhD MTech MTech - PhD MSc MSc - MTech Materials Engineering 364 KB , Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 148 KB , Computer Science Engineering 368 KB , Bioscience and Bioengineering 285 KB , Chemistry 150 KB , School of Management and Entrepreneurship SME 188 KB , School of Liberal Arts SOLA 137 KB , Mathematics 331 KB , Electrical Engineering 190 KB , Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETSD 399 KB , Centre for Education Technology CET 4007 KB , IDRP-IOT 125 KB , IDRP-RMS 137 KB , IDRP-SST 138 KB , IDRP-QIC 138 KB , IDRD-DH 393 KB , Chemical Engineering 105 KB , Physics 4.0 MB , Mechanical Engineering 295 KB , PDF : , Download : Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

List of Shortlisted Candidates Admission to Postgraduate Programs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! List of Shortlisted Candidates AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II December 2025 Programme PhD MTech MTech - PhD MSc MSc - MTech Bioscience Bioengineering 310 KB , Chemistry 236 KB , Chemical Engineering 111 KB , Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 214 KB , Computer Science and Engineering 384 KB , Electrical Engineering 359 KB , Mathematics 190 KB , Mechanical Engineering 132 KB , Materials Engineering 268 KB , School of Management and Entrepreneurship SME 199 KB , School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science SAIDE 844 KB , Center for Technology Foresight and Policy CTEP 434 KB , Centre for Mathematical and Computational Economics CMCE 834 KB , Center For Education Technology CET- for SoP Submission 331 KB , Center For Education Technology CET-based on SoP 536 KB , Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETSD 192 KB , Digital Humanities IDRD-DH 166 KB , AIOT and Applications IDRP-AIOT 174 KB , Robotics and Mobility Systems IDRP-RMS 195 KB , Space Science Technology IDRP-SST 220 KB , Physics 261 KB , IDRP-QIC 221 KB , PDF : , Download : Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All Events Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All Events Sr. No. Description 1 National Safety Week, 07-08 March Hands-On Workshop on Recent Trends in Generative AI Models and Their Applications 3 Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based Communication Systems Design 14th-15th and 21st-22nd March Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based Communication Systems Design 21st - 24th December rd ISME International Conference 2025 : December 17 - 19, The 28th National and 6th International ISHMT-ASTFE Heat and Mass Transfer Conference IHMTC-2025 December 9-12, st international conference on Compact objects Astrophysics and Astronomy COAA -2025: 10-12 December, th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO 4 to 6 December Institute Foundation Day : 2 August th Convocation of IIT Jodhpur : 26th June 11 Management Development Program, Center For Digital Health: 05-07 June 2025 Archive Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

All Events Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All Events National Safety Week, 07-08 March 2026 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Events School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Events Hands-On Workshop on Recent Trends in Generative AI Models and Their Applications Dates: 02-04 February 2026 Mode: Offline Physical mode at IIT Jodhpur Organized by: School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science SAIDE , IIT Jodhpur Workshop Website: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 28 Jan :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

All Events Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! All Events Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based Communication Systems Design 14th-15th and 21st-22nd March 2026 Department of EE, IIT Jodhpur will be organizing a Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based Communication Systems Design on 14th-15th and 21st-22nd March 2026. This intensive skill-development program aims to bridge the gap between theory and practice by providing hands-on exposure to MATLAB Simulink modelling and real-world implementation of software-defined radio SDR based systems. For more details on the program schedule, how to apply for this course, and the organizing team, please visit the course website below: ac.in iitj-skill-development- program home The deadline for registration is 10th March 2026. Click here for Flyer more details . 780 KB Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Chairman, BoG Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Chairman, BoG Chairman, Board of Governors Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar is the Chairman of the Physical Research Laboratory Management Council and a Member of the Space Commission, Government of India. He served as Secretary, Department of Space, and Chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation ISRO , during 20152018. Born on October 22, 1952, in Hassan, Karnataka, Shri Kiran Kumar holds an M.Sc. degree in Physics Electronics from Bangalore University and an M.Tech. degree in Physical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. He has steered the implementation of the applications-oriented Indian Space Programme, which has facilitated rapid development of the country in several important spheres, including earth observation, communication, navigation, meteorology, and space science, as well as the development of indigenous launch vehicles and related technologies to ensure assured access to space. He has led the design and development of more than 50 electro-optical imaging sensors flown on various spaceborne platforms, starting from Bhaskara in 1979. His role in the success of the Chandrayaan-1 mission and the Mars Orbiter Mission has also been significant. Shri Kiran Kumar chaired the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites CEOS in 2012. He has made valuable contributions to the Coordination Group of Meteorological Satellites CGMS , the Expert Team on Satellite Systems of the World Meteorological Organisation ETSAT of WMO , and the IndoUS Joint Working Group on Civil Space Cooperation. He has also served as President of the Aeronautical Society of India. He is a Fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy of Sciences India, the Indian Society of Remote Sensing, the Institution of Electronics Telecommunications Engineers, the Indian Society of Systems for Science Engineering, the Indian Meteorological Society, the Indian Society of Geomatics, the Gujarat Science Academy, and the Andhra Pradesh Academy of Sciences. He is also an elected member of the International Academy of Astronautics. In addition, he has been conferred with Honoris Causa doctorates D.Sc. by 18 Indian academic institutions. He has co-authored 85 publications in various national and international scientific journals, conferences, and symposiums. In recognition of his contributions, he was awarded the Padma Shri by the President of India in 2014. Other notable honours conferred on him include the Rajyotsava Award 2015 , the Sir M. Visvesvaraya Senior Scientist State Award 2013 by the Government of Karnataka, the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Karnataka Science and Technology Academy 2016 , the IISc Distinguished Alumnus Award 2015 , the Gujarat Ratna Life for Innovation Award by the Gujarat Innovation Society 2014 , the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Andhra Pradesh Akademi of Sciences 2016 , the Bharat Ratna Sir M. Visvesvaraya Centenary Award by the University of Mysore 2016 , the G. M. Modi Science Award 2016 , the H. K. Firodia Vijnan Ratna Award 2017 , the Santokbaa Award instituted by SRKKF Surat 2018 , and the ISRO Lifetime Achievement Award 2018 . He was also honoured with the prestigious International von Karman Wings Award in 2018, instituted by the Aerospace Historical Society together with the Graduate Aerospace Laboratories at the California Institute of Technology, and with the Chevalier de l'Ordre national de la Lgion d'Honneur the highest civilian honour of the Government of France in 2019. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Director Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Director Professor Avinash Kumar Agarwal, Director, IIT Jodhpur Professor Avinash Kumar Agarwal took over the charge of Director, IIT Jodhpur on 1 May 2024. He obtained his Undergraduate Degree in Mechanical Engineering 1994 from Malviya Regional Engineering College, Jaipur and his MTech Energy, 1996 and PhD Energy, 1999 from the Indian Institute of Technology IIT Delhi. After his Post-Doctoral Fellowship at the ERC, UW, Madison, USA, he returned to India in 2001 and joined IIT Kanpur. He was a Visiting Professor at the University of Loughborough, UK; Photonics Institute, University of Vienna, Austria; Hanyang University and KAIST, South Korea. Prof. Agarwal is interested in research in IC engines, combustion, conventional and alternative fuels, Methanol DME Hydrogen HCNG fuelled engine development, LCA and TCO analyses, Fuel sprays, Lubricating oil tribology, optical diagnostics, laser ignition, HCCI, particulates and emission control, and large bore engines. He has developed laser-fired hydrogen and CNG engines in automotive sizes and developed the first electronic fuel injection system equipped with a locomotive engine for Indian Railways. Currently, Prof. Agarwal is developing Methanol and DME-fuelled engines vehicles for the automotive agricultural sectors. Prof. Agarwal has published over 520 peer-reviewed international journal and conference papers, 63 edited books, and 129 book chapters, attracting 16000 Scopus and 24000 Google Scholar citations. Prof. Agarwal is the Editor of FUEL, Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Energy and Environmental Sustainability, Associate Editor of the ASME Journal of Energy Resources Technology, ASME Open Journal of Engineering, International Journal of Vehicle Systems Modelling and Testing, and the Journal of the Institute of Engineers Series C and an editorial board member of IMechE International Journal of Engine Research. He edited Wiley VCH, Germanys Handbook of Combustion 5 Volumes; 3168 pages , the most updated combustion compilation globally. For his outstanding contributions, Prof. Agarwal is conferred upon Sir J C Bose National Fellowship 2019 by SERB, SAE India Foundation GURU Award 2022 , WSSET Innovation Award-2022 , Clarivate Analytics India Citation Award-2017 in Engineering and Technology, Prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize 2016 in Engineering Sciences , Rajib Goyal Prize in Physical Sciences 2015 ; NASI-Reliance Industries Platinum Jubilee Award 2012 ; INAE Silver Jubilee Young Engineer Award 2012 ; Dr C. V. Raman Young Teachers Award 2011 ; SAE Ralph R. Teetor Educational Award 2008 ; INSA Young Scientist Award 2007 ; UICT Young Scientist Award 2007 ; INAE Young Engineer Award 2005 ; Devendra Shukla Research Fellowship 2009-12 , Poonam and Prabhu Goyal Endowed Chair Professorship 2013-16 , SBI Endowed Chair Professorship 2018-21, 2022-25 at IIT Kanpur; AICTE Career Award for Young Teachers 2004 ; DST Young Scientist Award 2002 ; and DST BOYSCAST Fellowship 2002 , in addition to inaugural version of Distinguished Alumni Award-2021 by MNIT Jaipur and Distinguished Alumni Award-2022 by IIT Delhi. Prof. Agarwal is a highly cited researcher-2018 in and is among the top ten HCRs from India, among 4000 HCR researchers globally in 22 fields of enquiry. He is Indias number one Energy researcher in the recently declared Stanford University listing of the top 2 of researchers globally. He is an elected Fellow of the Society of Automotive Engineers International, USA SAE; 2012 , American Society of Mechanical Engineers ASME; 2013 , Indian National Academy of Engineering INAE; 2015 , International Society for Energy, Environment and Sustainability ISEES; 2016 , Royal Society of Chemistry RSC; 2018 , National Academy of Science Allahabad NASI; 2018 , World Society of Sustainable Energy Technologies WSSET-2020 , American Association for Advancement in Science AAAS; 2020 and Combustion Institute USA CI; 2022 . He is featured in the DST Golden Jubilee Coffee Table Book 75 under 50 Scientists Shaping Todays INDIA , released by Vigyan Prasar, Government of India, on National Science Day, February 28th, 2022. At IIT Kanpur, Prof. Agarwal has established a state-of-the-art Engine Research Laboratory , and he was also the founder-director of IIT Kanpurs Science and Technology Research Park . He also founded the International Society for Energy, Environment and Sustainability in 2014 and is the Editor of the Book Series Entitled Energy Environment and Sustainability, published by Springer, Singapore 2016 onwards . Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Campus Life Office of Students IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Campus Life Welcome...!! Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur started its journey in 2008 along with seven other IITs established by the Ministry of Human Resource and Development MHRD , Government of India, to ensure quality technical education reaching students from all strata of society. The Institute is celebrating its 10th year of growth in the academic sector in the year 2019 with a promise to conglomerate Technical, Science and Humanities education that provides a wholesome development of students. The Institute has embraced latest pedagogical techniques to provide state-of-the-art technical education with the help of a set of committed Faculty Members having expertise in different fields of Technology, Science and Arts. At present the Institute offers a total of four undergraduate and several post graduate programs through nine departments. The Institute has introduced a set of brand new post graduate programs in topical areas with two new departments namely Civil Engineering and Chemical Engineering. Aspiring students have many questions in mind related to the Institute. A few of such Frequently Asked Questions are addressed here, and are pertaining to the following categories: Facilities Academics Student Life IIT Jodhpur Scholarships and Placement Please send your unanswered questions to Office of Students at Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Feb :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Important Links Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Important Links S. R. Ranganathan Learning Hub ERP Portal External Applications XApp Inclusivity Cell International Relations Companies Oversight Corporate Relation Techscape Publications IITJ House Allotment Rules For Employees Correspondence Grievance Redressal Committee How To Reach IIT Jodhpur Recruitment RTI Joint Consultative Committee Post Doctoral Fellows Commemorative Days IIT Jodhpur Vigilance Policy ScholarSphere SC and ST Helpdesk Tenders Chronological Development Friends of IIT Jodhpur Anti Sexual Harassment Policy Contact Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Recruitments Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Recruitments Faculty Members Post Doctoral Fellows Non-Teaching Staff Members Project Staff Member Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Tenders Details Office of Stores Purchase IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Tenders Details News Announcement Tender Details Tender Data on old website Tender Draft English , Hindi Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :39 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Techscape IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! About TechScape TechScape: The Science, Technology and Education Journal of IIT Jodhpur, is a periodical publication of IIT Jodhpur, in English language. The objective of the journal is to facilitate the dissemination of our work to the larger public. The journal is released thrice in an academic year, with one issue to commemorate Institute Foundation Day and one issue to commemorate the Annual Convocation, whenever these events may be held. The digital edition of this journal is hosted at . View Current Issue Aim and Scope The aim of TechScape is to chronicle the ongoing research activities at the Institute, the campus news and highlights, opinion pieces on recent developments in science, technology and education, besides featuring invited contributions from luminaries and alumni, in various fields. It features the latest developments in research and pedagogy at IIT Jodhpur, views and commentaries on science and technology in the world at large and having connection with the Institute, in-focus features and research snippets, outreach, and campus highlights. It has articles for serious readers, understandable without specialized knowledge. The content is curated to be of general interest, in particular to the IIT Jodhpur community, and to all stakeholders at large. Journal Information Title TechScape: The Science, Technology and Education Journal Frequency 3 times year OR Trimonthly ISSN Online Publisher Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, Jodhpur Chief Patron Director, IIT Jodhpur Managing Editor Dr Kshema Prakash Copyright Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, Jodhpur Starting Year 2020 Subject Multi-Disciplinary Language English Publication Format Online Phone No. Mobile No. Email ID Website Address Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar Jodhpur 342030 Rajasthan, India Information for Authors The Institution Publication Committee invites articles from faculty members and their PhD students for its three issues April, August, and December every year. The Call for Articles remains open throughout the year, and submitted entries are considered for the upcoming issue. Please read the Editorial Policy and Author Guidelines carefully before submitting your article. Editorial Policy Submit your Article Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 28 Aug :02 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Contact Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Contact Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District Rajasthan India eMail: Phone: Queries related to Administrative Contact Institute Working Days: Five days a week Monday to Friday Working Hours - 9:00 AM to 5:30 PM. Institute is closed on Saturdays Sundays and Notified Holidays of the Institute. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

How To Reach IIT Jodhpur Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! How To Reach IIT Jodhpur 1. Where is IIT Jodhpur? IIT Jodhpur is located on the outskirts of the city of Jodhpur and is well connected to other parts of country by road, rail and air. The Institute is located on National Highway 65 at Karwad Village, about 24 km from the railway station and 25 km from the airport; it takes approximately 45 mins and 40 mins to drive from airport and railway station to the Institute, respectively. 2. How to reach the campus? Jodhpur is connected well by road, rail and air to all major cities in the country, and by mega highways to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad. It is connected by rail to major cities in the country, like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kota, Kanpur, Ahmedabad, Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Guwahati, Nagpur, Lucknow and Jaipur There are daily flights from Delhi and Mumbai to Jodhpur. Air India and Jet Airways operate the daily flight to each of these cities Jodhpur is connected by mega-highway to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad. Deluxe and express buses ply to Jodhpur from Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Baroda. a From Airport to Campus You can take a prepaid auto taxi to the Institute, which is situated on National Highway 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar. You may ask the driver to go past Mandore on Nagaur Road. This Campus is about 25 km from the airport. b From Railway Station to Campus At Jodhpur Junction Railway Station, exit from Platform No.1 side. You can take a prepaid auto taxi to the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur, which is situated on National Highway 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar. You may ask the driver to go past Mandoreon Nagaur Road. This Campus is 24 km from the Station. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Institute Repository IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Institute Repository Minutes of Senate Meeting Minutes of BOG Meeting Annual Report Newsletter Brochure Accessibility ARIIA 2019-20 NIRF Vanguard Lectures Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 07 Jan :53 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Donate Office of Corporate Relations IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Donate Donation Form Submit Your Details in the Donation Form. Please scroll down for Payment Methods Complete your donation by clicking the button below. All fields marked with are mandatory. Open Donation Form Required Information Please have the following information ready: Personal Details Name, Email, Phone Donation Amount Purpose PAN Number for Tax Receipt Address for Communication Online Donation Via QR Thank you for considering to contribute to IIT Jodhpur. You can contribute to the institute by various modes described below. All contributions to IIT Jodhpur are 100 exempt under section 80G of Income Tax Act. Formal tax exemption receipt for all donations will be issued. Payment through Net Banking We accept contributions through Wire Transfers NEFT RTGS Bank Account Details ACCOUNT NAME DIRECTOR IIT JODHPUR ACCOUNT NUMBER BANK NAME HDFC IFSC CODE HDFC0000142 BRANCH ADDRESS 57 B, 9th Chopasani Road, Jodhpur Email Transaction Receipt After completing your transfer, email your receipt to: Include in Email Transaction receipt Project purpose details Contact information PAN number Online Donation via QR Make your contributions using Net Banking or scan the QR Code below. Director IIT Jodhpur TID: 62883632 Scan Pay Payment through Cheques DD We welcome contributions through Cheque DD. Please send Cheque DD along with a cover letter specifying the project purpose, contact details and PAN No. to the following addresses: Cheque DD Instructions Write your cheques to: Director IIT Jodhpur Send to this address: The Dean of Resources Alumni, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan, India Phone: 1116 Important Reminder Don't forget to include your cover letter with details, contact information, and PAN number Tax Exemption Benefits 100 Tax Exemption under Section 80G All contributions are eligible for a complete tax exemption. Official tax exemption receipts will be issued for all donations. Formal receipts provided for all donations Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :29 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Web Policy Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Web Policy Quality: Guidelines in accordance with GIGW 3.0. Association to government is demonstrated by the use of emblem logo in proper ratio and colour, prominently displayed on the homepage of the website or homescreen of the app. Ownership information is displayed on the homepage homescreen and on all important entry pages screens of the website app and each subsequent page screen is a standalone entity in terms of ownership, navigation and context of content. Source of all documents, not owned by the dept. that have been reproduced in part or full, is mentioned. Due permissions have been obtained for publishing any content protected by copyright. Homepage homescreen of the website app displays the last updated reviewed date. Complete information including title, size, format and usage instructions is provided for all downloadable material. In respect of each circular, notification, document, form, scheme, service and recruitment notice, the following should be clearly listed on the website app: a. Complete title b. Language if other than English c. Purpose procedure to apply as applicable d. Validity if applicable All outdated Announcements, Tenders, Recruitment notices, News and Press Releases are removed from the website app and or placed into the archives as per the archival policy. All information about the government organisation which is useful to users is present in the About us section and a mechanism is in place to keep the information up to date. Website app has a Contact us page providing complete contact details of important functionaries in the government organisation and this is linked from the homepage homescreen and all relevant places on the website app. Feedback is collected through online forms and a mechanism is in place to ensure timely response to feedback queries received through the website. Website app provides a prominent link to the National Portal from the homepage and webpages belonging to the National Portal load in the new browser window. The website has been tested on multiple browsers. Hindi Regional language fonts have been tested on popular browsers for any inconsistency loss of layout . The website app has a readily available Help section linked from all pages of the website. Website uses Cascading Style Sheets CSS to control layouts styles and incorporates responsive design features to ensure that the interface displays well on different screen sizes. Website is readable even when style sheets are switched off or not loaded. Proper page title and language attribute along with metadata for page like keywords and description are appropriately included. Minimum content as prescribed in the guidelines is present on the homepage homescreen and all subsequent pages screens. Data tables have been provided with necessary tags markup. Content of the web page prints correctly on an A4 size paper Website is in the nic.in or gov.in domain. Educational Institutions and Research and Academic Institutions, which are eligible for registration under gov.in may use edu.in, res.in or ac.in domains. The government organisation must ensure a consistent user experience and visual identities across all its websites apps. Websites apps must provide integration with popular social media. The language is free from spelling and grammatical errors. Accessibility: Guidelines in accordance with GIGW 3.0. All non-text content that is presented to the user has a text alternative that serves the equivalent purpose, except for the situations listed below: Controls, Input: If non-text content is a control or accepts user input, then it has a name that describes its purpose Refer to Success Criterion 4.1.2 for additional requirements for controls and content that accepts user input ; Time-Based Media: If non-text content is time-based media, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content Refer to Guideline 1.2 for additional requirements for media ; Test: If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be invalid if presented in text, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content; Sensory: If non-text content is primarily intended to create a specific sensory experience, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text content; CAPTCHA: If the purpose of non-text content is to confirm that content is being accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text alternatives that identify and describe the purpose of the non-text content are provided and alternative forms of CAPTCHA using output modes for different types of sensory perception are provided to accommodate different disabilities; and Decoration, Formatting, Invisible: If non-text content is pure decoration, is used only for visual formatting, or is not presented to users, then it is implemented in a way that it can be ignored by assistive technology. Information, structure and relationships conveyed through presentation can be programmatically determined or are available in text. When the sequence in which content is presented affects its meaning, a correct reading sequence can be programmatically determined. Instructions provided for understanding and operating content do not rely solely on sensory characteristics of components such as shape, color, size, visual location, orientation, or sound. Content does not restrict its view and operation to a single display orientation, such as portrait or landscape, unless a specific display orientation is essential. Colour is not used as the only visual means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element. If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism is available to pause or stop the audio, or a mechanism is available to control audio volume independently from the overall system volume level. The visual presentation of text and images of text has a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1, except for the following: Except for captions and images of text, text can be resized without assistive technology up to 200 percent without loss of content or functionality. If the technologies being used can achieve the visual presentation, text is used to convey information rather than images of text except for the following: Customizable: The image of text can be visually customised to the users requirements; Essential: A particular presentation of text is essential to the information being conveyed; and Use of images for representing text should be limited. Content can be presented without loss of information or functionality and without requiring scrolling in two dimensions for: Vertical scrolling content at a width equivalent to 320 CSS pixels; Horizontal scrolling content at a height equivalent to 256 CSS pixels; and Except for parts of the content which require a two-dimensional layout for usage or meaning. The visual presentation of the following has a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 against adjacent colour s : User Interface Components: Visual information required to identify user interface components and states, except for inactive components or where the appearance of the component is determined by the user agent and not modified by the author; Graphical Objects: Parts of graphics required to understand the content, except when a particular presentation of graphics is essential to the information being conveyed. In content implemented using markup languages that support the following text style properties, no loss of content or functionality occurs by setting all of the following and by changing no other style property: Line height line spacing to at least 1.5 times the font size; Spacing following paragraphs to at least 2 times the font size; Letter spacing tracking to at least 0.12 times the font size; Word spacing to at least 0.16 times the font size; and Exception: Human languages and scripts that do not make use of one or more of these text style properties in written text can conform using only the properties that exist for that combination of language and script. Where receiving and then removing pointer hover or keyboard focus triggers additional content to become visible and then hidden, the following are true: Dismissible: A mechanism is available to dismiss the additional content without moving pointer hover or keyboard focus unless the additional content communicates an input error or does not obscure or replace other content; Hover-able: If pointer hover can trigger the additional content, then the pointer can be moved over the additional content without the additional content disappearing; and Persistent: The additional content remains visible until the hover or focus trigger is removed, the user dismisses it, or its information is no longer valid. All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except where the underlying function requires input that depends on the path of the users movement and not just the endpoints. If keyboard focus can be moved to a component of the page using a keyboard interface, then focus can be moved away from that component using only a keyboard interface and, if it requires more than unmodified arrow or tab keys or other standard exit methods, the user is advised of the method for moving focus away. If a keyboard shortcut is implemented in content using only letter including upper- and lower-case letters , punctuation, number, or symbol characters, then at least one of the following is true: Turn off: A mechanism is available to turn the shortcut off; Remap: A mechanism is available to remap the shortcut to include one or more non-printable keyboard keys e.g., Ctrl, Alt ; and Active only on focus: The keyboard shortcut for a user interface component is only active when that component has focus. For each time limit that is set by the content, at least one of the following is true: Turn off: The user is allowed to turn off the time limit before encountering it; or Adjust: The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before encountering it over a wide range that is at least ten times the length of the default setting; or Extend: The user is warned before time expires and given at least 20 seconds to extend the time limit with a simple action for example, press the spacebar and the user is allowed to extend the time limit at least ten times; or Real-time Exception: The time limit is a required part of a real-time event for example, an auction and no alternative to the time limit is possible; or Essential Exception: The time limit is essential and extending it would invalidate the activity; or 20 Hour Exception: The time limit is longer than 20 hours. For moving, blinking, scrolling, or autoupdating information, all of the following are true: Moving, blinking, scrolling: For any moving, blinking or scrolling information that 1 starts automatically, 2 lasts more than five seconds and 3 is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an activity where it is essential; and Auto-updating: For any auto-updating information that 1 starts automatically and 2 is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the auto-updating is part of an activity where it is essential. Web pages do not contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one second period, or the flash is below the general flash and red flash thresholds. A mechanism is available to bypass blocks of content that are repeated on multiple Web pages. Web pages app screens have titles that describe topic or purpose. If a Web page can be navigated sequentially and the navigation sequences affect meaning or operation, focusable components receive focus in an order that preserves meaning and operability. General Guidelines: Copyright Policy No copyright protected third party content has been used in the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur website Material featured on this portal may be reproduced free of charge in any format or media without requiring specific permission. This is subject to the material being reproduced accurately and not being used in a derogatory manner or in a misleading context. Where the material is being published or issued to others, the source must be prominently acknowledged. However, the permission to reproduce this material does not extend to any material on this site which is identified as being the copyright of the third party. Authorization to reproduce such material is obtained from the copyright holders concerned. Clearer distinction between IIT Jodhpur-owned and third-party content. Emphasis on accurate representation and avoiding misuse of content. Specific guidance on proper attribution, including URL references. Information on commercial use restrictions. Contact information for inquiries. Content Contribution, Moderation, and Approval CMAP Policy Objective: The CMAP policy at IIT Jodhpur aims to maintain a high standard of academic integrity and quality across all user-contributed content, ensuring it aligns with the educational mission of the institution while fostering respectful and inclusive academic discourse. Submission Guidelines: Contributors are encouraged to submit original images, videos, artwork, or other creative content. All submissions must follow the web portals creative themes, which include art, design and multimedia. Content formats allowed: JPEG PNG for images, and PDF HTML for written submissions. Following this policy, we provide a role-based Content Management system. This CMS helps the website team by giving role-specific access to the administrator panel to different Users. Admin can create the users by assigning him a particular role and Module to which functions of a particular user are limited. These users are known as web coordinators. These users would be appointed by the Web Information manager in consultation with concern department Office section and they would be responsible for the overall quality and quantity of information on the Website. Policy ensures below mentioned points on website. Website is free from offensive discriminatory language. Clear and simple language has been used throughout the website. The language is free from spelling and grammatical errors. There is adequate contrast between the text and background color. Alternate text is provided for non-text elements e.g. images . Web pages do not contain any content that flashes more than three times in a second. Web coordinators from various department Office section will provide update the information in bilingual Hindi and English which will be verified by Hindi office as per requested. For various requirements, the portals developed by ERP section of the institute will be linked with website. The contact information of the relevant office technical team will be given on portal regarding any queries regarding portal. Content Archival Policy CAP Content Archival Mechanism is in place to ensure that all outdated announcements are removed from the website or moved to archive. This will help the website team in ensuring that the expired contents are removed from the main website. The Archival System is available on the Website will transfer the expired content in the archives section as soon as it reaches the expiry date. Content Review Policy CRP The web information manager and the assigned Personnel web coordinators will have the responsibility for periodically reviewing the content of the website in respect of their respective domains department offices centers etc. and keeping the information Up to Date. Hyperlinking Policy Links to external websites portals : At many places on IIT Jodhpur, you shall find links to other websites portals. These links have been placed for your convenience. IIT Jodhpur is not responsible for the contents of the linked websites and does not necessarily endorse the views expressed in them. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all the time and we have no control over the availability of linked destinations. Links to IIT Jodhpur by other websites portals: We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on this web site and no prior permission is required for the same. Also, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The pages belonging to IIT Jodhpur must load into a newly opened browser window of the User. Links of IIT Jodhpur portals: as per requirement there are various links will be present on website which is developed by ERP division of institute. The contact information of relevant office technical team will be given on portal regarding any queries regarding portal. Privacy Policy This website does not automatically capture any specific personal information from you, like name, phone number or e-mail address , that allows us to identify you individually. We do not sell or share any personally identifiable information volunteered on the website site to any third party public private . Any information provided to this website will be protected from loss, misuse, unauthorized access or disclosure, alteration, or destruction. We gather certain information about the User, such as Internet protocol IP addresses, domain name, browser type, operating system, the date and time of the visit and the pages visited. We make no attempt to link these addresses with the identity of individuals visiting our site unless an attempt to damage the site has been detected. Terms Conditions This website is intended to provide information about our academic programs, research activities, campus life, and other initiatives. While we make every effort to ensure the accuracy and timeliness of the information contained here, it's important to understand the limitations outlined below. Disclaimer Information Sources: The content on this website, including news, announcements, and regulations, is derived from various sources within IIT Jodhpur. However, this website is not an official legal document and should not be relied upon. Accuracy and Currency We diligently strive to keep the information accurate and up to date. However, errors or outdated information may inadvertently occur. We encourage you to verify any critical information by checking with the relevant department or authority at IIT Jodhpur or consulting other reliable sources. Professional Advice The information on this website is for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be a substitute for professional advice. For matters related to academics, admissions, legal issues, or any other specific concerns, please seek guidance from qualified professionals. Liability IIT Jodhpur assumes no responsibility for any expenses, losses, or damages arising from the use of this website, including indirect or consequential damages, data loss, or service interruptions. This applies even if we are notified of the possibility of these damages. Acceptance By accessing and using this website, you acknowledge and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions. If you do not agree to these terms, please do not use this website. Governing Law These terms and conditions are governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of India. Jurisdiction Any dispute arising out of or relating to these terms and conditions shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of India. Changes IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify these terms and conditions at any time without prior notice. Your continued use of this website following any such modification constitutes your agreement to the revised terms and conditions. Intellectual Property All content on this website, including text, images, videos, and logos, is the property of IIT Jodhpur or its licensors and is protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws. Unauthorized use of this content is strictly prohibited. Links to External Websites This website may contain links to external websites that are not operated by IIT Jodhpur. We have no control over the content of these websites and are not responsible for their content or practices. Your use of these external websites is at your own risk. Privacy Policy Please refer to our Privacy Policy for information on how we collect, use, and protect your personal information. By using this website, you agree to these disclaimers and Terms of Use. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact us. Website Monitoring Plan Under this, the website is monitored periodically to address and fix the quality and compatibility issues around the following parameters: Functionality: All modules of the website are tested for their Functionality for their smooth working. Performance: All important pages of the website are tested for the download time. Broken Links: The website is thoroughly reviewed to rule out the presence of any broken links or errors. Contingency Management Plan The Hosting Service Provider IIT Jodhpur possesses state-of-the-art multi-tier security infrastructure which includes devices such as web application firewall WAF , intrusion prevention systems and Endpoint Protection that has been implemented in the hosting system. Security Policy Increasing complexity of data access due to multiplicity of platforms leads to multiple leakage scenarios while data is being created, accessed and utilized. Network server system , endpoints, application physical environments, and communication are involved in the execution of a data transaction .These elements contribute to the security posture of data. Value associated with data collected by an organization is increasing phenomenally, attracting the attention of adversaries and attackers. Security threats are becoming more organized and targeted , reaping immense benefits out of data compromises .This has led to the increasing concentration of these threats at the data layer. We maintain appropriate security measures to protect your personal information from unauthorized access, alteration, or disclosure. We utilize secure servers and encryption protocols to safeguard your data. We regularly review and update our security practices to adapt to evolving threats. We maintain proper data classification so no sharing of secret top secret document is permitted We are also maintaining network segmentation to reduce the attack surface. Download section : Please follow the GIGW guidelines for common structure of download section and archival page. Accessibility: Guidelines in accordance with GIGW 3.0. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Web Information Manager WIM Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Web Information Manager WIM Contact Information Name: Ram Singh Ratnu Designation: Junior Technical Superintendent Department: Digital Infrastructure and Automation Address: Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar Jodhpur 342030 Rajasthan India Phone: Email: webmaster at iitj dot ac dot in Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Feedback RedirectToLoginPage !!! Feedback Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Help Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Help The website will enable people with visual impairments access the website using assistive technologies, including screen readers. The information of the website is accessible with different screen readers, such as JAWS, NVDA, SAFA, Supernova and Window-Eyes. Following table lists the information about different screen readers: Information related to the various screen readers Screen Reader Website Free Commercial Non Visual Desktop Access NVDA Free System Access To Go Free Hal Commercial JAWS Commercial Supernova Commercial Window-Eyes Commercial Speech Recognition Support The information of the website is accessible with different speech recognition software, such as Dragon Naturally Speaking as well as Speech Recognition support available in Windows Vista and Windows 7 operating systems. Following table lists the information about different speech recognition software: Information related to Speech Recognition Software Speech Recognition Software Website Free Commercial Windows Speech Recognition in Windows Vista Commercial Speech Recognition in Windows 7 Commercial Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

NIRF Institute Repository IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! NIRF Year Title 2025 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2025 Engineering 108 KB Management 23 KB Overall 114 KB Innovation 114 KB Sustainable Development Goals SDG 110 KB 2024 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2024 Overall 95 KB IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2024 Engineering 89 KB 2023 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year 2023 Engineering 82.8 KB Overall 89 KB 18 February, 2022 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year KB 19 February, 2021 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year KB 31 December, 2019 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year KB 7 January, 2019 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year KB 7 December, 2017 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year KB 28 November, 2016 IIT Jodhpur's NIRF Data for the year KB File 2017 Consultancy Project Detail 125 KB Entrepreneurship 242 KB Executive Development Program 220 KB Higher Studies NIRF Final 293 KB National Ranking Important 327 KB Sponsored Research Detail 287 KB Top University Details 3D 242 KB Top University Details 5D 196 KB Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 07 Jan :53 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Anti Sexual Harassment Policy IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Anti Sexual Harassment Policy IIT Jodhpur constituted Internal Complaints Committee vide Notification No.IITJ Admin 2019-20 153 dated 23 November 2019 in accordance with the provisions contained in Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal Act, 2013. The Terms of Reference of the Committee shall be as follows: To organise regular awareness programs in the Institute, regarding sexual harassment, for various stakeholders of the Institute, particularly, women; To recommend to the Institute, from time to time, measures that should be taken to deter sexual harassment and acts that affect dignity of all persons in the campus; To deal with such other matters and issues as may be considered connected with sexual harassment to anyone affecting their dignity; and To advice the Institute from time to time in matters of sexual harassment, and also for upholding the dignity of everyone attached with the Institute. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Aug :03 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

B.Tech. Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! B.Tech. UG Curricula S.No. Program Name Action 1 B.Tech. AI and Data Science View 2 B.Tech. Bioengineering View 3 B.Tech. Chemical Engineering View 4 B.Tech. Civil and Infrastructure Engineering View 5 B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering View 6 B.Tech. Electrical Engineering View 7 B.Tech. Materials Engineering View 8 B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering View Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

B.S. Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! B.S. New BS Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 BS Physics with Specialization View 2 BS Chemistry with Specialization View Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

M.Sc. Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! M.Sc. Master of Science Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 M.Sc. Chemistry View 2 M.Sc. Mathematics View 3 M.Sc. Physics View 4 M.Sc. Digital humanities View 5 M.Sc. Computational social Sciences View Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

M.Tech. Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! M.Tech. Master of Technology Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 M.Tech. Advance Manufacturing and Design View 2 M.Tech Artificial Intelligence View 3 M.Tech. Bioscience and Bioengineering View 4 M.Tech. Chemical engineering View 5 M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering View 6 M.Tech Cyber Physical System View 7 M.Tech. Data and Computational Science View 8 M.Tech. Infrastructure Engineering and Specialization in Energy View 9 M.Tech. Infrastructure Engineering and Specialization in Environmental Engineering View 10 M.Tech. Materials Engineering View 11 M.Tech. Sensors and Internet of Thing View 12 M.Tech. Thermofluids Engineering View Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

M.Sc. M.Tech. Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! M.Sc. M.Tech. Master of Science Master of Technology Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 Mathematics Data and Computational Science View 2 Physics Material Engineering View Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

MDes Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! MDes Masters of Design Programs S.No. Program Name Action 1 Masters of Design MDes View Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Ph.D. Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Ph.D. Important Dates for Rolling advertisement for Admission to Interdisciplinary and Ph.D. Programmes Milestones Date Last date of filling online application form Throughout the year Cut-off date for an application to be considered for the admission process 20 April for Semester I , 20 October for Semester II Announcement of shortlisted applicants for the admission process 25 April for Semester I , 25 October for Semester II Date of written test and or Interview To be announced Apply Online Applicants should use the online application form , which will be activated during the time of admissions. Applicants shortlisted for the written test and or interview will be required to bring the final submitted application form duly signed along with a copy of valid GATE scorecard at the time of written examination and or interview. The processing fee is Rs. 300 for General and OBC applicants, and Rs. 150 for SC, ST, and PD applicants online while submitting the application form. In case you have any questions, please contact: Assistant Registrar Office of Academics Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur N.H. 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar Jodhpur 342030 eMail: Phone: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

MBA Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! MBA S.No. Program Name Action 1 MBA MBA-Technology View 2 MBA in FinTech Cyber Security View 3 International Dual Degree View 4 Dual Degree View Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Collaborations Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Collaborations S.No. Collaboration Area Action 1 Collaborations with Academia View 2 Collaborations with Industry View Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

List of Academic Programs Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! List of Academic Programs Programs offered by IITJ Bachelor of Technology S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Computer Science Engineering Started in 2008 2 Electrical Engineering Started in 2008 3 Mechanical Engineering Started in 2008 4 Bioengineering Started in 2017 5 Materials Engineering Started from AY Chemical Engineering 7 Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 8 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Bachelor of Science S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Chemistry with Specialization Started from Physics with Specialization BSc-BEd Integrated Teacher Education Program ITEP S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 with BSc Major in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics Starting in 2024-25 Master of Science S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Chemistry Started in 2015 2 Mathematics Started in 2015 3 Physics Started in 2015 4 Digital Humanities Started from AY Computational Social Science Started from AY 2022-23 Master of Technology S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Bioscience and Bioengineering Started in 2017 2 Computer Science and Engineering Started in 2018 3 Artificial Intelligence Started in 2019 4 Cyber Physical System Started in 2019 5 Communication Systems 6 Advanced Manufacturing and Design Started in 2019 7 Data and Computational Sciences Started in 2019 8 Thermofluids Engineering Started in 2019 Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies 9 Materials Engineering Name Metallurgical and Materials Engineering changed to Materials Engineering July 2020 Started in Chemical Engineering Started from AY Environmental Engineering 12 Energy Infrastructure 13 Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality AR VR 14 Robotics 15 Microelectronics and VLSI Started in July 2023 16 Bridge Engineering Executive M.Tech. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Artificial Intelligence Started from year January 2020 2 Data and Computational Sciences Started from year October 2021 3 Intelligent VLSI Systems Started from year AY Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality AR VR 5 Robotics and Mobility Systems Masters of Design S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 MDes Starting in 2025 Doctor of Philosophy S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Chemistry Started in 2014 2 Mathematics Started in 2014 3 Physics Started in 2014 4 Biosciences and Bioengineering Started in 2014 5 Computer Science Engineering Started in 2014 6 Electrical Engineering Started in 2014 7 Mechanical Engineering Started in 2014 8 Materials Engineering Started in 2018 9 Chemical Engineering Started from AY Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 11 Management and Entrepreneurship 12 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Started in 2021 13 School of Design 14 School of Liberal Arts 15 Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development 16 Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics 17 Center for Internet of Things IoT Applications 18 Center for Education Technology 19 Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy 20 Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Interdisciplinary Ph.D. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Digital Humanities Started in 2019 2 Smart Health Care Started in 2019 3 Space Science and Technology Started in 2019 4 Robotics and Mobility Systems Started in 2019 5 Quantum Information and Computation Started in 2019 School of Management and Entrepreneurship S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 MBA Started from AY 2020-21 Masters and Ph.D. Dual Degree S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Medical Technologies Started from AY 2020-21 Masters Programs S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Masters in Medical Technologies Started from AY 2020-21 Postgraduate Diploma S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Data Engineering and Cloud Computing Started from AY 2022-23 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Discontinued Program Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Discontinued Program Following Programmes have been discontinued B.Tech. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Systems Sciences SS Started in 2011 discontinued in July 2015 2 Biologically Inspired System Science BISS Started in 2013 discontinued in July 2015 M.Tech. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Center of ICT Started in 2011 discontinued in July 2015 2 Center of SS 3 Center of Energy 4 Mechanical Engineering Started in 2015 dicontinued in July 2019 5 Electrical Engineering Ph.D. S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Center of Energy Started in 2010 dicontinued in July 2015 2 Center of SS Started in 2011 dicontinued in July 2015 3 Center of ICT Started in 2012 dicontinued in July 2015 4 BISS Started in 2013 dicontinued in July 2015 M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Data and Computational Sciences Started in 2019 , discontinued in Feb 2026 2 M.Sc. in Physics and M.Tech. in Materials Engineering Started from AY 2020-21 , discontinued in Feb 2026 3 Chemistry and Materials Engineering Discontinued in Feb 2026 M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree S.No. Academic Programs Starting Year 1 Sensors and Internet of Things Started in 2019 2 Cyber Physical System Started in 2019 3 Communication and Signal Processing Started in 2019 4 Thermofluids Engineering Started in 2019 5 Advanced Manufacturing Started in 2019 6 Mechanical Design Started in 2019 7 Materials Engineering Name Metallurgical and Materials Engineering changed to Materials Engineering July 2020 Started in Computer Science and Engineering Started in 2019 9 Artificial Intelligence Started in Data and Computational Sciences Started in Bioscience and Bioengineering Started in Chemical Engineering Started from AY Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Environmental Engineering 14 Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Energy 15 Intelligent Communication System Started from AY Intelligent VLSI Systems Started in July 2023 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Contact Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Contact Office of Academics, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District UG Matter: in PG Matter: in Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Download Forms Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Download Forms Admission Forms: Annexure I Exemption form GATE Open only on intranet OBC-NCL Certificate Format Form No. OBC-NCL Open only on intranet Form GEN-EWS Open only on intranet Annexure II CFTI list Open only on intranet List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and Interview Form No. AD1 Open only on intranet Merit List of Candidates Shortlisted for Ph.D. IDRP Ph.D. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Admissions Form No. AD2 Open only on intranet Proposal to admit New Ph.D. IDRP-Ph.D. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Students with source of Assistantship Form No. AD3 Open only on intranet Details of Current M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree, Ph.D. and IDRP Ph.D. Students, who are paid Assistantship from MHRD Grant-in-Aid Form No. AD4 Open only on intranet Merit List of Candidates Shortlisted for M.Tech. Admissions- M.Tech. Direct Admissions Under Admission Category Form No. AD5 Open only on intranet List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and or Interview- M.Tech. Admission Under Admission Category Form No. AD6 Open only on intranet Merit List of Candidates Shortlisted for M.Tech. Admissions Under Admission Category Form No. AD7 Open only on intranet Admission Guidelines: Modality of uploading PhD and MTech PhD results on Departmental webpages Open only on intranet Guidelines for PG Admissions Open only on intranet Under Graduate Forms: Application Form for B. Tech. Branch Discipline Change A-9 Open only on intranet Leave Application Form B. Tech. A-15 Open only on intranet M.Tech. M.Sc. Forms: for Students Enrolled From July 2019 onwards: M.Sc. M.Tech. Supervisor Allocation Form A-20 Open only on intranet M.Sc., M.Sc.-M.Tech. and M.Tech. Supervisor Allocation Form A-20 Open only on intranet Report of M.Tech.-Ph.D. Project Evaluation Form No. A-24 Open only on intranet Report of M.Sc. M.Tech. Project Evaluation Form No. A-23 Open only on intranet Committee for Conduct and Evaluation of M.Sc. M.Tech. Project Form No. 21 Open only on intranet Format and Guidelines for submission of final Project Report Open only on intranet SOP-For Online submission of project M.Sc. M.Tech. M.Sc.-M.Tech. Open only on intranet M.Tech. Guidelines: Master of Technology M. Tech. Thesis: Supervisors Certificate Open only on intranet Master of Technology M. Tech. Thesis: Students Certificate Open only on intranet Master of Technology M. Tech. Thesis Guidelines Open only on intranet Ph.D. Forms: for Students Enrolled Before July 2019: Ph.D. Comprehensive Doctoral Committee DC Approval A-1A Open only on intranet Report of State of the Art Seminar A-2 Open only on intranet Form for Inclusion of a Co-Supervisor A-5 Open only on intranet Ph.D. Supervisor Allocation Form A-6 Open only on intranet Performance Assessment of Thesis Work of Ph.D. Students A-7 Open only on intranet Names of Proposed Ph.D. Thesis Examiners A-8 Open only on intranet Final Contact Details of Proposed Ph.D. Thesis Examiners A-10 Open only on intranet Report on Ph.D. Viva Voce Examination A-13 Open only on intranet Honorarium to the Indian Examiner for Conducting Ph.D. Viva Voce Examination A-14 Open only on intranet Completion of Open Seminar A-17 Open only on intranet Submission of Thesis for Ph.D. Degree A-18 Open only on intranet Ph.D. Forms: for Students Enrolled From July 2019 onwards: Student Research Committee SRC Form for Students Registered from July 2019 onwards A-1A Open only on intranet Report of Comprehensive Examination for students registered from July 2019 A-1B Open only on intranet Report of State of the Art Seminar Form for students registered from July 2019 A-2 Open only on intranet Report of Research Proposal Submitted by SRC Form No. A-7 Open only on intranet Details regarding Format for submission of Research Proposal for Ph.D. Student Open only on intranet Ph.D. Thesis Guidelines: Conduct of Courses and Conduct of Examinations Open only on intranet Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. Thesis Guidelines Open only on intranet Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. Thesis: Students Certificate Open only on intranet Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. Thesis: Supervisors Certificate Open only on intranet Course Contents for Ph.D. Comprehensive Exam From July 2019 onwards: Department of Chemical Engineering Open only on intranet IDRP on Space Science Technologies Open only on intranet IDRP on Science of Intelligence Open only on intranet IDRP on Smart Healthcare Open only on intranet IDRP on Digital Humanities Open only on intranet IDRP on Quantum Information and Computation Open only on intranet IDRP on IoT and Applications Open only on intranet Department of Physics Open only on intranet Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Open only on intranet Department of Mechanical Engineering Open only on intranet Department of Mathematics Open only on intranet Department of Humanities and Social Sciences Open only on intranet Department of Chemistry Open only on intranet Department of Computer Science and Engineering Open only on intranet Department of Electrical Engineering Open only on intranet Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering Open only on intranet IDRP-Ph.D. Forms: for Students Enrolled From July 2019 onwards: Report of Comprehensive Examination Form No. IDRP-A1B Open only on intranet Report of State of the Art Seminar SOTA Form No. IDRP A-2 Open only on intranet IDRP-Ph.D Supervisor Allocation Form No. IDRP-A5 Open only on intranet IDRP Ph.D REPORT ON RESEARCH PROPOSAL SUBMITTED BY SRC Form No. IDRP-A7 Open only on intranet Medical Technologies Program: for Students Enrolled From July 2019 onwards: Masters-Ph.D. and Ph.D Supervisor Allocation Form for Joint Program IDRP-MMT-A1 Open only on intranet Masters Supervisor Allocation Form for Joint Program IDRP-MMT-A2 Open only on intranet Report of State of the Art Seminar SOTA for Masters-Ph.D. and Ph.D for Joint Program IDRP-MMT-A3 Open only on intranet Doctoral Committee DC Approval for Masters-Ph.D. and Ph.D for Joint Program IDRP-MMT-A4 Open only on intranet Committee for Conduct and Evaluation of Masters and Masters-Ph.D. Project for Joint Program IDRP-MMT-A5 Open only on intranet Report of Masters-Ph.D. Project Evaluation for Joint Program IDRP-MMT-A6 Open only on intranet Report of Masters Project Evaluation for Joint Program IDRP-MMT-A7 Open only on intranet Medical Technologies Guidelines: Guidelines and Format for submission of Project Report Masters and Masters-Ph.D in Medical Technologies Open only on intranet Project Proposal submission Template for IIT Jodhpur-AIIMS Jodhpur Joint Programs in Medical Technology Open only on intranet Common Forms: Deputation to Visit other Academic Institutes A-3 Open only on intranet Permission for Attending Conferences, Workshops, Symposium A-4 Open only on intranet Payment of Honorarium to Guest Faculty Staff A-12 Open only on intranet No Dues Certificate for PG Students A-19 Open only on intranet CGPA Conversion and Medium of Teaching Certificate Open only on intranet Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Academic Calendar Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Academic Calendar Academic Calendar BS BSc Academic Year 20252026 Download file Academic Calendar for Academic Year 202526 Download file Academic Calendar BS BSC Download file Academic Calendar PG-Certificate PG Diploma MBA-Tech Trimester Model AY 2025-26 Download file Academic Calendar PG-Certificate in Machine Learning and Artificial AY 2024-25 Download file Academic Calendar: Academic Year Summer Term 2024-25 Download file Academic Calendar: Academic Year 2024-25 Download file Academic Calendar PG-Certificate PG Diploma MBA-Tech Trimester Model Download file Academic Calendar PG Certification in ML AI AY 2024 -25 Download file Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

UG Registration Guidelines Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! UG Registration Guidelines Guidelines for Registration for UG Students Bouquet I Bouquet II Bouquet III Bouquet IV Short stories from around the world Introduction to sociology Microeconomics 1 AIDE-CMCE Introduction to Philosophy Regional literature in translation Digital Society Microeconomics 2 AIDE-CMCE Fundamentals of logic Creative writing Urban Sociology Health Economics Critical Thinking Postcolonial Fiction Indian Society: A sociological Introduction Industrial Organization Cognitive Semantics Short Fiction from India Youth studies Health and Development Philosophical Problems Science Fiction Law and Society Indian Economic Development and Policy Introduction to Indian Philosophy Introduction to Theatre Sociology of Work and Industry Political and Institutional Economics of Development Theories of justice Short Fictions from South Asian Diaspora Development and Environment Foundations and Finance Gandhian Thought Classic Detective Fiction Social Stratification Individual and Strategic Decision Making AIDE-CMCE Role of Technology in Development Social and Economics Networks AIDE-CMCE Disasters, Risk Reduction, and Management Behavioral Economics and Decision Theory AIDE-CMCE Political and Cultural Ecology Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

First Year Class Time-Table Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! First Year Class Time-Table Slot System AY 2023-24 Semester-I B.Tech. 1st Year Download UG First Year Time Table First Year Section A First Year Section A Group A1 Group A2 Group A3 Group A4 Group A5 Group A6 First Year Section B Group B1 Group B2 Group B3 Group B4 Group B5 Group B6 Group B7 Section and Group allocation for UG First Year Instructors and Classrooms Faculty Advisors First Year Section A Back to index Courses for Section A: BBL1020: Introduction to Bioengineering Theory LHB308 BBP1010: Introduction to Bioengineering Lab Bioengineering Dept EEL1010: Introduction to Electrical Engineering LHB308 MAL1010: Mathematics I LHB308 CSL1010: Introduction to Computer Science LHB308 MEP1010: Engineering Visualization Computer Centre OAE1010: Engineering Design I PH MT Department HSN1010: Communication Skill I Computer Centre OSN1020: Performing Arts I OSN1030: Sport I Sport Ground Berm OSN1010: Social Connect and Responsibilities I Group A1 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupA1 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group A1 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 910 HSN1010 Lab CSL1010 Lab MEP1010 Lab OAE1010 ED1 EEL1010 Lab 121 12 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 23 BBP1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 CSL1010 OSN1020 30 OSN1010 Group A2 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupA2 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group A2 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 910 HSN1010 Lab CSL1010 Lab EEL1010 Lab OAE1010 ED1 MEP1010 Lab 121 12 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 23 BBP1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 Group A3 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupA3 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group A3 td Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 910 HSN1010 Lab CSL1010 Lab EEL1010 Lab OAE1010 ED1 MEP1010 Lab 121 12 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 23 BBP1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 Group A4 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupA4 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group A4 Sr. 121 to 160 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 910 HSN1010 Lab BBP1010 Lab CSL1010 Lab OAE1010 ED1 EEL1010 Lab 121 12 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 23 MEP1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 Group A5 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupA5 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group A5 Sr. 161 to 200 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 910 EEL1010 Lab BBP1010 Lab HSN1010 Lab OAE1010 ED1 CSL1010 Lab 121 12 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 23 MEP1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 Group A6 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupA6 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group A6 Sr. 201 to 240 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 MAL1010 EEL1010 910 EEL1010 Lab BBP1010 Lab HSN1010 Lab OAE1010 ED1 CSL1010 Lab 121 12 BBL1020 BBL1020 CSL1010 BBL1020 CSL1010 23 MEP1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 CSL1010 OSN1020 OSN1010 First Year Section B Back to index Courses for Section B: CYL1010: Chemistry LHB 110 MEL1010: Engineering Mechanics LHB 110 PHL1010: Electromagnetism and Optics LHB 110 MAL1010: Mathematics I LHB 110 PHP1010: Physics Lab Physics Department CYP1010: Chemistry Lab Chemistry Department MEP1010: Engineering Visualization Computer Centre OAE1010: Engineering Design I PH MT Department HSN1010: Communication Skill I Computer Centre OSN1020: Performing Arts I Sport Ground Berm OSN1030: Sport I Sport Ground Berm OSN1010: Social Connect and Responsibilities I LHB110 Group B1 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupB1 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group B1 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 910 CYL1010 Lab PHP1010 Lab HSN1010 Lab 121 12 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010 T CYL1010 23 OAE1010 ED1 MEP1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B2 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupB2 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group B2 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 910 MEP1010 Lab CYL1010 Lab PHP1010 Lab HSN1010 Lab 121 12 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010 T CYL1010 23 OAE1010 ED MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B3 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupB3 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group B3 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 910 MEP1010 Lab CYL1010 Lab PHP1010 Lab HSN1010 Lab 121 12 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010 T CYL1010 23 OAE1010 ED MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B4 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupB4 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group B4 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 910 MEP1010 Lab PHP1010 Lab CYL1010 Lab 121 12 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010 T CYL1010 23 HSN1010 Lab OAE1010 ED MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B5 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupB5 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group B5 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 910 CYL1010 Lab MEP1010 Lab PHP1010 Lab MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010 T CYL1010 23 HSN1010 Lab OAE1010 ED MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B6 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupB6 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group B6 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 910 CYL1010 Lab PHP1010 Lab MEP1010 Lab MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010 T CYL1010 23 OAE1010 ED1 HSN1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Group B7 Back to index Table-2023-FGroupB7 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Group B7 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 89 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 MAL1010 PHL1010 910 PHP1010 Lab CYL1010 Lab MEP1010 Lab 121 12 MEL1010 MEL1010 CYL1010 MEL1010 T CYL1010 23 OAE1010 ED1 HSN1010 Lab 34 45 MAL1010 MAL1010 Tut 56 OSN1020 CYL1010 OSN1010 Section and Group allocation for UG First Year Back to index Table-Section2023 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Instructors and Classrooms Back to index Table-Instructors2023 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table SN Course Code Name of Course Credits LTP Course Instructor eMail Slot Class Room Lab Section 1 BBL1020 Introduction to Bioengineering Theory BBL1020 3.0 3-0-0 Raviraj Vankayala F LHB 308 Section A 2 BBP1010 Introduction to Bioengineering Lab BBP1010 1.0 0-0-2 Dinesh Ahirwar M1 Bioengineering Dept 3 EEL1010 Introduction to Electrical Engineering EEL1010 4.0 3-0-2 Rajlaxmi Chouhan, Soumava Mukherjee K LHB 308 4 CSL1010 Introduction to Computer Science CSL1010 4.0 3-0-2 Richa Singh G LHB308 5 MAL1010 Mathematics I MAL1010 4.0 3-1-0 Kirankumar Hiremath N LHB 308 6 MEP1010 Engineering Visualization MEP1010 1.0 0-0-2 Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty M3 Computer Centre 7 HSN1010 Communication Skill I HSN1010 1.0 0-0-2 Anupama Mohan M4 Computer Centre 8 OSN1010 Social Connect and Responsibilities I OSN1010 0.5 0-0-1 Ananya Debnath NG-1 9 OSN1020 30 Performing Arts I OSN1020 Sport I OSN1030 0.5 0-0-1 Ankita Sharma NG-2 Sport Ground Berm 10 OAE1010 Engineering Design I 1.0 0-0-2 Sandip Murarka M8 PH MT Department 1 CYL1010 Chemistry CYL1010 3.0 3-0-0 Rakesh Kumar Sharma G LHB 110 Section B 2 MEL1010 Engineering Mechanics MEL1010 3.0 2-1-0 Amrita Puri F LHB 110 3 PHL1010 Electromagnetism and Optics PHL1010 3.0 3-0-0 Durgamadhab Mishra K LHB 110 4 MAL1010 Mathematics I MAL1010 4.0 3-1-0 Kirankumar Hiremath N LHB 110 5 PHP1010 Physics Lab 1.0 0-0-2 B M Krishna Mariserla M1 Physics Department 6 CYP1010 Chemistry Lab 1.0 0-0-2 Nirmal Kumar Rana M2 Chemistry Department 7 MEP1010 Engineering Visualization MEP1010 1.0 0-0-2 Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty M3 Computer Centre 8 HSN1010 Communication Skill I HSN1010 1.0 0-0-2 Anupama Mohan M4 Computer Centre 9 OSN1010 Social Connect and Responsibilities I OSN1010 0.5 0-0-1 Ananya Debnath Ananya Debnath NG-1 LHB 110 10 OSN1020 30 Performing Arts I OSN1020 Sport I OSN1030 0.5 0-0-1 Ankita Sharma NG-2 Sport Ground Berm 11 OAE1010 Engineering Design I 1.0 0-0-2 Sandip Murarka M8 PH MT Department Faculty Advisors Back to index Table-FAs-2023 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table S.No. Branch Program Faculty Advisor 1 Mechanical Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year ME Dr. Vignesh T. G. 2 Computer Science and Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year CSE Dr. Kshitiz Gajjar 3 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science B.Tech. 1st Year AI 4 Electrical Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year EE Dr. Jai Narayan Tripathi 5 BioEngineering B.Tech. 1st Year BE Dr. Meenu Chhabra 6 Metallurgical Materials Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year MT Srijan Sen Gupta 7 Chemical Engineering B.Tech. 1st Year CH Dr. Nirmalya Bachhar 8 Civil and Infrastructural engineering B.Tech. 1st Year CI Dr. Tekcham Gishan Singh 9 Chemistry B.S. 1st Year CY Samnwita Pal 10 Physics B.S. 1st Year PH Dr. Durgamadhab Mishra Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Engineering Science Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Engineering Science No.IITJ OA C 2020-21 19 2645 Dated 31 July 2021 B.Tech. in Engineering Science B.Tech. in Engineering Science Message from Chairperson ES Undergratuate Commitee Institute Background and Vision Program Background Engineering Science Options Student Details Domain Options for B.Tech. ES CS Chem CSE EE AI EE Mech Electrical Civil engineering AI Material Science AI Bio AI Curriculum First and Second Semester Third and Fourth Semester Engineering Science Undergraduate Committee Student Details B.Tech. in Engineering Science Back to index Message from Chairperson ES Undergratuate Commitee Back to index Engineering applications generally require multidisciplinary knowledge, spanning across various disciplines of engineering and sciences. Knowledge in humanities along with engineering and or sciences are also finding important applications. B.Tech. in Engineering Sciences ES is a unique bachelors degree program of IIT Jodhpur which aim to impart core knowledge in two targeted focus areas in Science and Engineering, to meet demands of emerging industrial and academic requirements. Any student admitted to IIT Jodhpur can opt for B.Tech. in Engineering science post 1st year. Students will be required to complete core courses of ES, in the first two years of study whereas they can outline their own curriculum, in the guidance of faculty advisor, in the form of electives for the remaining two years, from courses across disciplines of engineering, science, and humanities. In line with regular B.Tech. programs, students can also use 10 credits out of stipulated electives and 10 additional credits to earn minor specialization as an add-on to the B.Tech. degree. The flexibility of curriculum selection, as per students capabilities and interest with faculty guidance, aims to impart sufficient knowledge to the students, to be future ready professionals. Professor Ajay Agarwal Chairperson Institute Background and Vision Back to index Innovations, Scientific Discoveries, and New Technologies are the essential foundations of the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur. The institute focuses on building solid and in-depth knowledge in the engineering domains and strongly encourages interdisciplinary learning. The courses offered are defined such that it enhances the imagination and creativity of the students to identify and solve new problems in society. Our endeavour is to build an atmosphere for uninhibited ideas.The institute offers 9 B.Tech programs: Computer Science Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Engineering Sciences, Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, Mechanical Engineering, Bioengineering, Materials Engineering, Chemical Engineering and Civil and Infrastructure Engineering. The institute also empowers students by allowing them to avail specializations, minors, and elective courses. Program Background Back to index Engineering Science is a unique branch of engineering designed to cater to the upcoming demand of the industry and research, training the best of students to have a strong foundation in every field along with a specialization in their topic of interest. Our institute is one of the primary institutes offering an Engineering Science program. This programme is a four-year course. The first two years are devoted to topics which we believe all Engineering undergraduates should study. In the third and fourth years, the students have the opportunity to study any two complementary disciplines by drafting their own course structure. This fosters multi-disciplinary thinking and integrated application of engineering, scientific and mathematical principles in young students. The students can specialise minor in any field as well. The final degree will read: B.Tech in Engineering Science with specialisation minor Engineering Science Options Back to index To provide flexibility in curricula, options have been created to pursue 4-year B.Tech. in Engineering Science: Any student may opt for B.Tech. in Engineering science post 1st year to pursue a targeted focus area in Science and Engineering to meet demands of emerging industrial and academic requirements. Students will be required to Complete core course requirements in the first two years of study where as they can outline their own curriculum in the form of electives for the remaining two years from courses across disciplines of engineering, science, and humanities. The students will be awarded B.Tech in Engineering Science. Similar to regular B.Tech. Programme Students can also use 10 credits out Of stipulated electives and 10 additional credits to earn minor specialization as an add-on to the B.Tech degree. 4-year B.Tech. in X Engineering Science : Students can pursue a capability linked B.Tech. in X Engineering Science to pursue newer Structures of programmes in addition to classical programmes, where X represents the primary branch in which a student has taken admissions. After completion of the first year, the student having a CGPA of 6.5 or more may opt to choose Capability-linked B.Tech. in X Engineering Science. Students will be required to register for extra credits for the same. The students pursuing this programme will take common courses and courses with a concentration in Engineering Science in the 2nd year. From the third year onwards the student would also start opting for courses related to the primary branch X and elective courses in the area of both primary branch and Engineering Science. At the end of the second year, an option of primary branch change will also be available to meritorious students of this programme. The students will be awarded B.Tech. in X and Engineering Science, e.g., B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering And Engineering Science. Students of this programme would not be able to opt for any other specialization minor. 3-year B.Sc. in Engineering Science: This option is designed mainly for under performing students as an exit plan. The student would be required to complete required credits under institute and engineering science core, and open electives categories. Domain Options for B.Tech. ES Back to index There are various combinations of complementary domains that a student can opt in their 5th and 6th semester. A few examples are: CS EE, CS BB, CS Chem, CS Math,CS Phy, AI BB, AI EE. CS Chem Back to index Dancing Molecular: Study of properties of different elements for substituting Li-ion batteries using molecular dynamics. Molecular Dynamics is a computationally intensive task and required intense knowledge of Mathematics, Chemical Engineering, and Computer Science. CSE EE Back to index Electrical engineering deals with the study and the application of electricity , electronics and electromagnetismComputer engineering deals with the design of computer systems which involves the design of the new hardware or software where knowledge of electronics is prerequisite Also we can clearly understand about the networking and the telecommunication. The objective of Engineering Science Computer Science and Electrical Engineering program is to design the systems and components that capture, store, process, interpret, and transmit information or signals. Some of the most significant technological advances of the 20th century were either invented or put into practice by electrical engineers and computer scientists, including electric power systems; global broadcast and personal telecommunication systems; computer systems; computer networks; medical instrumentation, such as magnetic resonance imaging MRI and computer-aided tomography CAT ; integrated circuits; lasers; household appliances; and feedback control, such as for autopilots. New technologies developed by electrical engineers and computer scientists are likely to be even more important in the 21st century as a new era of intelligent, information-driven systems is made possible by fundamental advances in faster communication rates, smaller devices, and greater computational capabilities. AI EE Back to index The fifth generation 5G wireless communications are expected to satisfy the diverse service requirements in various aspectsDue to the extreme range of 5G requirements,the design and optimization of 5G networks becomes very challenging. The future 5G network will require robust intelligent algorithms to adapt network protocols and resource management for different services in different scenarios. Artificial intelligence AI , is a feasible solution for the emerging complex communication system design. It is now appropriate to apply AI technology to 5G wireless communications to tackle optimized physical layer design, complicated decision making, network management and resource optimization tasks in such networks The objective of Engineering Science Artificial intelligence and Electrical Engineering program is to design the systems and components that has provided a great potential and space for optimization in the field of electrical engineering. This can not only bring about a significant improvement not only with regards to the economic aspects but also in the safety and the actual control of the operation. Ever since artificial intelligence reached a stage where it could be used in various fields in order to make work simpler, it has been used widely in various fields of life, primarily in robotics and computer programming. Recent studies and investigations have shown that artificial intelligence can also be a viable option in the field of electrical engineering especially as a solution to some longstanding power system problems where conventional methods experience some difficulty. Mech Electrical Back to index Electromechanics focuses on the interaction of electrical and mechanical systems as a whole and how the two systems interact with each other. This process is especially prominent in systems such as those of DC or AC rotating electrical machines which can be designed and operated to generate power from a mechanical process generator or used to power a mechanical effect motor . Electromechanical Robotics is one of its applications. Civil Engineering AI Back to index With skylines of major cities around the world peppered with iconic buildings of all shapes and sizes, we can all agree that the boundaries and standards of design and engineering have been pushed beyond their limits. This is all thanks to the biggest game-changer in the industryArtificial Intelligence in 3D Building Information Modeling BIM .The construction process involves safety risks that can lead to actual accidents. AI provides the opportunity for more accurate data gathering from real-world context models to help civil engineers identify potential hazards in the construction process.Also, AI-enabled cameras and networks can continuously monitor all areas of construction and allow engineers to assess equipment use, track progress, and analyze activities in real-time, which helps in the early detection of potential risk hazards. A good example of the application of such technology lies in the popularity of Indus.ai. This San Francisco tech company set AI-supported cameras around construction sites to provide real-time footage while collecting and evaluating data to give construction managers insights on things like the movement of materials and labor deployment at various areas of the site. This interactive dashboard also allows civil engineers to anticipate anything that may prove dangerous and make better decisions with regard to workers safety. Material Science AI Back to index Materials science or solid-state physics is plagued by the curse of dimensionality. This means even for a reasonable number of constituents of a material, the structure-property relationships are determined by a high-dimensional parameter space. These relationships are not something trivial to be elucidated only by experiments or theory. This is precisely where the applications of AI or machine learning ML come into play. Bio AI Back to index AI is also making its presence felt in biotechnology, where it has become integral to many aspects of drug discovery and development. By leveraging machine learning, AI can manage disparate clinical trial datasets, enable virtual screening, and analyze vast amounts of data. Besides reducing clinical trial costs, AI can gain otherwise unobtainable insights and feed them back into the drug development process. AI technologies to serve the biotech industry are being developed by several companies. Their services are rapidly becoming indispensable as older methods like classical statistical analysis or manual image scanning reach their practical limits. Curriculum Back to index First and Second Semester Back to index Table-ES-Sem12 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table 1st Semester ES Category Course Name L-T-P Credits 2nd Semester ES Category Course Name L-T-P Credits 1 IE EEL1010: Introduction to Electrical Engineering IE MEL1010:Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 3.0 2 IE CSL1010: Introduction to Computer Science IS CYL1010:Chemistry 3-0-0 3.0 3 IE BBL1010: Introduction to Bioengineering IS PHL:1010 Electromagnetism and OpticsPhysics 3-0-0 3.0 4 IS MAL1010: Mathematics IS MAL1020: Mathematics II 3-1-0 4.0 5 IE MEP1010: Engineering Visualization IS PHP1010:Physics Laboratory 0-0-2 1.0 6 NE OAE1010: Engineering Design IS CYP1010:Chemistry Lab 0-0-2 1.0 7 NH HSN1010: Communication Skill IE MEP1020:Engineering Realization 0-0-2 1.0 8 NH OSN1010: Social Connect and Responsibilities 0-0-1 0.5 8 NE OAE1020: Engineering Design II 0-0-2 1.0 9 NH OSN1020: Performing Arts 1 Sports .5 9 NH HSN1020:Communication Skill II 0-0-2 1.0 Total Graded 17 10 NH OSN1040: Social Connect and Responsibilities 0-0-1 0.5 Total Non-Graded 3 11 NH OSN1050: Performing Arts 2 Sports .5 Total Graded 16.0 Total Non-Graded 3.0 Third and Fourth Semester Back to index Table-ES-Sem34 use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table 3rd Semester ES Category Course Name L-T-P Credits 4th Semester ES Category Course Name L-T-P Credits 1 ES CSL2020 Data Structuresand Algorithms ES CSL2050 Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning ES MAL2010 Probability,Statistics and Stochastic Processes ES CSL2060 Embedded Systems and IoT ES PHL2060 Modern Physics ES CSL2070 Modelling and Simulation IE EEL2010 Signals andSystems ES CSL2040 Design and analysis of Experiments IE MEL2020 Thermodynamics IE MTL2013 Materials Selection IE MTL2014 ComputationalMaterial Design IE MTL2012 Structure of Materials NE Intro. To Profession IH Humanities I 3-0-0 3 Total Graded 20 Total Graded 20 Total Non-Graded 1 Total Non-Graded 0 Engineering Science Undergraduate Committee Back to index It is a committee established to ensure the course is run efficiently and effectively. Prof. Ajay Agrawal,Dept. of Electrical Engineering,Chairperson Dr. Dip Shankar Banerjee,Asst. Professor, Dept. of CSE,Faculty Advisor Dr. Ankur Gupta,Asst. Professor, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, Member Dr. Deepika Bhattu,Asst. Professor, Dept of Civil Engineering, Faculty Advisor Dr. Angan Sengupta,Asst. Professor, Dept. of Chemical Engineering, Time Table cordinator Dr. Ritu Gupta,Asst. Professor, Dept. of Chemistry, Member Dr. Prasenjeet A. Tribhuvan, Asst. Professor, Dept. of H SS, Member Dr. Harshit Agarwal, Asst. Professor, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Member-Convener Student Details Back to index B20ES001 Adarsh Kumar CSE EE Communications B20ES014 Akarshan CSE EE Communications B20ES008 Samyak Bafna AI DS EE Communications B20ES004 Dhruv Agarwal AI DS Chemical B20ES005 Harsh Jaiswal CSE EE Communications B20ES009 Utkarsh CSE Chemical B20ES006 Narahari Sai Divya Bio Engineering AI DS B20ES007 Poonam Suthar BioEngineering AI DS B20ES016 Prakhar Katiyar CSE Chemical B20ES013 Prashant Kumar CSE EE Communications B20ES015 Sujal Gupta CSE Chemical B20ES011 Vidhi Gupta CSE Chemica B20ES010 Yash Anand CSE Bio Engineering B20ES012 Yash Ruhatiya CSE Bio Engineering Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Specialization Minor Dual Degree Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Specialization Minor Dual Degree UG Program Options IITJ OA C 2021-22 25 3716 Dated 23 December 2021 Options for Specializations, Minors and Dual Degree Options for Specializations, Minors and Dual Degree Major Department Specialization, Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. AI Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. BB Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. EE Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. CI Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. CH Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. CSE Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. ME Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. MT Specialization Minor Options for B.S. Chemistry Specialization Minor Options for B.S. Physics Dual Degree Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. AI Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. BB Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. EE Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. CI Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. CH Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. CSE Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. ME Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. MT Options for Specializations, Minors and Dual Degree Back to index Major Department Specialization, Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization Back to index Eligibility Criteria Back to index A student should have earned a minimum of 85 graded credits with the CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 at the end of the 5th semester to opt for capability linked opportunity. A student who has completed 85 graded credits can take 700 Level courses. Credits Requirements Back to index A student needs to complete a total of 20 Credits in the Major DepartmentSpecializationor Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization area offered. Ten 10 Credits out of 20Will be taken up as a part of Open electives, where as the student is required to opt for an additional 10 credits in the form of course overload. This will be indicated in the degree. Starting from the sixth semester, students who have earned 85 graded credits with CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 are permitted to take upto 4 extra Credits as part of their normal load, which forms part of her his additional learning component, every semester in addition to the prescribed courses for their degree. Table-UGProgramOptions use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Institute Core Program Linked L Program Core P Open O Specialization Minor M.Tech. MBA M Total Graded Non-Graded N Total Graded Non-Graded Program Engineering IE Science IS Humanities IH Science LS Program Compulsory PC Program Electives PE B.Tech. Project PP Open Electives OE Compulsory SC Electives SE Compulsory MC Electives ME Open Electives MO Project MP Humanities NH Engineering NE Design Practical Experience ND MBA Winter Internship Dual Degree Summer 1 Dual Degree Summer 2 B.Tech. Regular B.Tech. With Specialization Minor Dual Degree B.Tech. M.Tech Dual Degree B.Tech. MBA Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. AI Back to index Visual Computing Socio-Digital Reality VLSI Systems Artificial Intelligence of Things Intelligent Communication and Networking Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. BB Back to index Therapeutic Engineering and Drug Discovery Microbial Systems Engineering Artificial Intelligence Data Science Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. EE Back to index Cyber-Physical Systems Communication Engineering Nano and Flexible Electronics VLSI Systems Smart Grid Artificial Intelligence of Things Intelligent Communication and Networking Visual Computing Socio-Digital Reality Artificial Intelligence Energy Engineering Micro-Nano Engineering Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. CI Back to index Artificial Intelligence Smart Infrastructure Environmental Engineering Energy Engineering Data Science Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. CH Back to index Sustainability Molecular Engineering Artificial Intelligence Environmental Engineering Energy Engineering Cyber-Physical Systems Data Science Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. CSE Back to index Visual Computing Socio-Digital Reality VLSI Systems Artificial Intelligence of Things Intelligent Communication and Networking Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. ME Back to index Micro-Nano Engineering Design Engineering Smart Manufacturing Visual Computing Artificial Intelligence Cyber-Physical Systems Environmental Engineering Energy Engineering Data Science Engineering Innovation Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization Minor Options for B.Tech. MT Back to index Smart Manufacturing Data Science Artificial Intelligence Engineering Innovation Computational Materials Engineering Structural Materials Functional Materials Minor in Management Minor in Entrepreneurship Minor in Mathematical and Computational Economics Minor in Science of Intelligence Minor in Performing and Creative Arts Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics Interdisciplinary specialization in Smart Healthcare Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum Information and Computation Specialization Minor Options for B.S. Chemistry Back to index Spectroscopy and Dynamics Organic and Organometallic Catalysis Advanced Energy Materials Entrepreneurship Specialization Minor Options for B.S. Physics Back to index Advanced Energy Materials Photonics Quantum Technologies Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Back to index Eligibility Criteria Back to index Students who have already opted for Major Department Specialization,Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization can opt for a dual-degree Programme from the eighth semester provided they have earned a minimum of 130 graded Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end of the 7th semester. As a special case, a student may be allowed to opt for a dual degree by the end of 8th Semester if the student has atleast 6 CGPA and continued specialization. Credits Requirements for B.Tech. M.Tech. MBA Dual Degree in the chosen specialisation Back to index A student needs to complete a total of 54 graded and 2 non-graded Credits in the Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary area offered towards M.Tech. and 58 graded and 11 non-graded Credits towards MBA. It will include credits earned for Major Departmentor or Minor Interdisciplinary area Specialization, excluding the project credits . Credits of Minor Specialization done in Semester VI and Semester VII if not part of M.Tech. MBA Programme will be counted towards programme electives. Students will be required to complete all core courses except for preparatory and bridge courses. Students will be required to take additional Credit of Programme Elective against preparatory courses. Table-UGProgramOptions use the horizontal scroll bar to see the full table Institute Core Program Linked L Program Core P Open O Specialization Minor M.Tech. MBA M Total Graded Non-Graded N Total Graded Non-Graded Program Engineering IE Science IS Humanities IH Science LS Program Compulsory PC Program Electives PE B.Tech. Project PP Open Electives OE Compulsory SC Electives SE Compulsory MC Electives ME Open Electives MO Project MP Humanities NH Engineering NE Design Practical Experience ND MBA Winter Internship Dual Degree Summer 1 Dual Degree Summer 2 B.Tech. Regular B.Tech. With Specialization Minor Dual Degree B.Tech. M.Tech Dual Degree B.Tech. MBA Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. AI Back to index Sensors and IoT MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. BB Back to index Artificial Intelligence Data and Computational Science MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. EE Back to index Cyber-Physical Systems Sensors and IoT Artificial Intelligence Thermo Fluid Engineering MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. CI Back to index Artificial Intelligence Environmental Engineering Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Energy Data and Computational Science MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. CH Back to index Artificial Intelligence Environmental Engineering Thermo Fluid Engineering Data and Computational Science MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. CSE Back to index Sensors and IoT MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. ME Back to index Cyber-Physical Systems Artificial Intelligence Environmental Engineering Thermo Fluid Engineering Advanced Manufacturing and Design Data and Computational Science MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Dual Degree Options for B.Tech. MT Back to index Artificial Intelligence Advanced Manufacturing and Design Data and Computational Science Computational Materials Engineering Structural Materials Functional Materials MBA-Tech MBA Entrepreneurship Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

More Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! A Academic Calendar U UG Registration Guidelines F First Year Class Time-Table E Engineering Science F Forms S Specialization Minor Dual Degree Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Bachelor of Technology IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! B.Tech. Programmes at IIT Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur offers eight B.Tech. Programmes, namely, 1. B.Tech. Bioscience Bioengineering 2. B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering 3. B.Tech. Electrical Engineering 4. B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering 5. B.Tech. AI and Data Science 6. B.Tech. Chemical Engineering 7. B.Tech. Materials Engineering 8. B.Tech. Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 9. B.Tech. Electronics Engineering For details of Curriculum please visit the page and Program Structure click here . UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES OF IITJ: CURRICULUM FOR A GLOBAL ENGINEER Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is committed to educational excellence through a strong student-focused educational experience and toprovide quality education with the contemporary and highly professional curricula. In order to achieve this objective, IIT Jodhpur has undergone thorough curriculum change in the year 2019 and came up with a new curriculum. This article highlights philosophy ingrained in the new curriculum and some salient features. The societal challenges of the 21st century are profound and wide-ranging. Basic needs such as energy, food and water, housing, mobility, and health will become even more acute as the world population exceeds 9 billion. The demands for sustainable development will require redefined and innovative engineering talent and leadership. The emergence of a connected, competitive, and entrepreneurial global economy, in which successful engineers increasingly need technical competency and professional skills that differ from what worked in the past. These reasons build up a clear case for disruptive revision of the undergraduate curriculum. Some of the attributes expected of modern engineers are: 1. Flexibility to understand and manage rapidly evolving technologies; 2. Ability to identify, define as well as solve problems; 3. Proficiency in theory and applications; 4. Skill for handlingout-of-the-box engineering challenges; 5. Capable of Creative Thinking; 6. Experience of entrepreneurship; 7. Understanding of public policy implications. Today the creative function of engineering is expected to be viewed and understood in the broader context of the new patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities and social sciences, arts and engineering. IIT Jodhpur has pursued a newer structure of programmes in addition to classical programmes to address these opportunities. Objectives The objective of the new curriculum is to define a novel instructional paradigm and content plan to address modern demands of professional education as outlined above based upon the philosophy of outcome-based education. The curriculum builds on four guiding principles of outcome-based academic, i.e., 1. All students can learn and succeed but maybe not on the same day or in the same way 2. Each success by a student breeds more success success must open up the opportunity of more success 3. Academic institutions create and nurture the conditions of success 4. The academic system acknowledges and respects challenging initiatives without fear of failure. Unique features of the UG curriculum Unique features of the undergraduate curriculum are highlighted next: The curriculum emphasized the fundamentals of basic and engineering sciences to enable learners to have a broader multi-disciplinary perspective for the specialisation being pursued. Departmental courses focus on fundamental scientific principles behind technologies. Avenues created for pursuing co-curricular and extra-curricular creative interests as an integral component of the curricular content by introducing nongraded courses on social connect, performing arts, and communication skills. As an outcome of these pursuits, a student is expected to improve their capacity to imagine and to build up enthusiasm to pursue unknown territories through purely creative ventures. Early design courses are introduced which focus more heavily on conceptual design methods and less on discipline-specific artefacts. These courses teach that design is open-ended; that there are numerous engineering challenges beyond domains of traditional disciplines, and that students could begin to think and work like engineers. Avenues created for making students continuously engaged in these intellectual processes throughout the curriculum and at an increasingly sophisticated level through design credits. Such continual integrative experiences help students to expand and deepen their internal knowledge structure of the discipline, which will aid their eventual retrieval and use. Opportunities and challenges continue to require engineers to literally invent the future by developing breakthrough technologies that solve global problems and enhance the quality of life. Entrepreneurship education has been introduced in the curriculum as a minor which gives them solid experience in product design and development, prototyping, technology trends, and market analysis Options of Department Area Specialisation and five-year B.Tech. M.Tech. allows students to pursue in-depth study of the topics of interest belonging to the programme. Department Area Specialization in Engineering Innovation has also been introduced with the aim of making students Industry Ready by offering five months Practical Project jointly with an Industry or R D organization. Students get real-world experience working for an industry or R D organization on a project that complements their academic experience. With the rapid change in the contours of engineering education due to emergence of Miniaturization, Parallelism, Smart Materials, Bio-mimetic Systems, AI and Cognitive Systems, the role of engineering institute is not only preparing students in their major areas of study but also on other skills to encourage interdisciplinary teams to address challenges faced by the society. The emphasis has been laid on the development of technical skills in interdisciplinary areas and upcoming fields by introducing various Interdisciplinary specializations such as AI, CPS, IoT, Robotics, Smart Healthcare, etc. With evolving patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines and obliterating traditional boundaries between science and engineering, a capability linked Double B.Tech. with second degree in Engineering Science is introduced to pursue newer structures of programmes in addition to classical programmes to provide ability to apply diverse knowledge and skills flexibly in novel situations. With changing paradigms of Evaluation and Assessment, the performance of students in a course is evaluated not only thorough examinations but also on a continuous basis which include but not limited to interaction in the classroom interaction, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. Technology-enabled aids have been assimilated into continuation evaluation as an integrated component. The finer granularity in grading has been introduced to allow for more precise and fairer grading, provide a more reliable indication of student performance, and give students a better opportunity to improve their grades. Throughout the curriculum Efforts have been laid down at building up Strong Foundation, Enabling Continuous Learning, Inter-disciplinary Breadth, Design Thinking, Imbibing Creative and Critical Thinking, Social Responsibility and Professional Ethics, and Sustainability as distinct thematic Commitment. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 16 Jan :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Master of Science IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Master of Science Programs 1. M.Sc. Chemistry 2. M.Sc. Mathematics 3. M.Sc. Physics 4. M.Sc. Digital Humanities 5. M.Sc. Computational Social Science Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 05 Jun :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Master of Technology IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Master of Technology Programs 1. M.Tech. Bioscience Bioengineering 2. M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering 3. M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence 4. M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems 5. M.Tech. Sensors and Internet of Things Discontinue from AY . M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences 7. M.Tech. Advanced Manufacturing and Design 8. M.Tech. Thermofluids Engineering 9. M.Tech. Materials Engineering 10. M.Tech. Chemical Engineering 11. M.Tech. Environmental Engineering 12. M.Tech. Energy Infrastructure 13. M. Tech Communication Systems 14. MTech AR VR 15. Robotics 16. Quantum Technologies 17. Bridge Engineering 18. Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 23 Jan :39 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Doctor of Philosophy IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Doctor of Philosophy Programs Core Sciences 1. Ph.D. Chemistry 2. Ph.D. Mathematics 3. Ph.D. Physics Engineering Sciences 1. Ph.D. Biosciences and Bioengineering 2. Ph.D. Computer Science Engineering 3. Ph.D. Electrical Engineering 4. Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering 5. Ph.D. Metallurgical Materials Engineering 6. Ph.D. Chemical Engineering 7. Ph.D. Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Inter-disciplinary Areas 1. Ph.D. Robotics and Mobility Systems 2. Ph.D. Digital Humanities 3. Ph.D. Quantum Information and Computation 4. Ph.D. Smart Healthcare 5. Ph.D. Space Science Technologies Schools Ph.D. School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Ph.D. School of Liberal Arts Ph.D. Management and Entrepreneurship Ph.D. Schools of Design Centers 1. Ph.D. Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development -CETSD 2. Ph.D. Center for Education Technology -CET 3. Ph.D. Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics 4. Ph.D. Center for Internet of Things IoT Applications 5. Ph.D. Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy 6. Ph.D. Center for Technology Foresight and Policy Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Feb :51 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! : 1 2 2019 3 ... .. 4 ... .. 5 .. 6 .., ..-. 7 2019 ..- 8 2019 .. .. 9 2019 .. ..-... , 10 2019 .. .. 11 .. ..- .. ..-.. 12 2019 .. .. .. .. ..-.. 15 2019 16 2019 17 18 19 2020 .. 20 2019 23 2019 24 .. 25 , , , 26 27 28 29 .. 30 31 2020 .. 4 .. 32 33 - 35 36 37 38 39 2019 IITJ DoAA 2025-26 63 . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Details Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! B B.Tech. B B.S. M M.Sc. M M.Tech. M M.Sc. M.Tech. M MDes P Ph.D. M MBA C Collaborations Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! 2025-26 Download file Download file - - 2025-26 Download file - 2024-25 Download file : 2024-25 Download file : 2024-25 Download file - - Download file 2024 -25 Download file . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! Rules Regulations For Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards Download file Amendment Revised Norms for Continuation of Program Assistantship and graduation requirements for M.Tech. M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students registered from 2019 onwards Download file Academic Regulations Approved in July 2019 Academic Regulations Academic Regulations 2. Academic Session 2.1 Academic Calendar 3. Registration 3.1 Provisional Registration 3.2 Late Registration 3.3 Adding and Dropping of Courses 3.4 Withdrawing from a course 3.5 Cancellation of Semester Registration 3.6 Summer Course Registration 4. Teaching and Evaluation 4.1 Teaching 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction 4.1.2 Course Structure 4.1.3 Approval of Courses 4.1.4 List of Courses 4.1.5 Categories of Courses 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements 4.2 Evaluation 5. Grading System 5.1 Letter Grades 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results 5.3 Grade Point Averages 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average 6. Grade Card and Transcript 7. Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases 8. Make-up Examinations Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes 9. Undergraduate Programs 10. Undergraduate Admissions 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes 10.2 Reservation Policy 10.3 Student Exchange Programme 10.4 Visiting Students 10.5 Cancellation of Admission 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements 11. Curriculum and Academic Requirements 11.1 Academic Load Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes 11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes 12. UG Registration 12.1 Summer Courses 12.2 Limits on Registration 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme 13. Evaluation of Special UG only courses 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee DUGC 13.3 Engineering Innovation 13.4 Design Project Evaluation 13.5 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project 13.6 Entrepreneurship Project 14. Termination 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program 14.2 Appeal against Termination 15. Leave Rules 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation 15.2 Short Leave 15.3 Semester Withdrawal 15.4 Academic Leave 16. Branch Change 17. Requirements 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 17.2 Academic 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO 17.6 Award of Degrees 18. Amendments Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes 19. Postgraduate Programmes 20. Postgraduate admissions 20.1 Categories of Admission 20.2 Eligibility for Admission 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students 20.4 Reservation Policy 21 PG Registration 21.1 Limits on Registration 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time External Ph.D. Programme 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program 21.6 Course Registration 22 Academic Requirements 22.1 Academic Load Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programme 22.2 Course categories for Masters programmes 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students 22.4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students Executive M.Tech. 22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. M.Tech. Dual Degree 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students 22.8 Academic Performance Requirements 23. Leave Rules 23.1 Leave 23.2 Other Leaves 23.3 Semester Withdrawa 23.4 Academic Leave 24. Financial Assistance 24.1 M.Sc. Program 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program 24.3 M.Tech. Program 24.4 Executive M Tech Program 24.5 M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Program 24.6 Ph.D. Program 25. Rules and Regulations For M.Tech. M.Sc. Project 26 Rules and Regulations for Ph.D. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program 26.1 Thesis Supervisor s 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor 26.3 Student Research Committee SRC 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting APM 26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program 26.8 Cancellation of Registration 26.9 Synopsis 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation 27. Graduation Requirements 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement 27.2 Academic 27.3 No Dues Clearance 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 27.5 Award of Degrees 28. AMENDMENTS Academic Regulations Back to index 1. Introduction Back to index Academic programmes at Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur are designed to develop thehighest calibre human resource capable of understanding the new patterns of knowledgecreation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities,social sciences and engineering. IIT Jodhpur aims to produce quality professionals who would beable to address profound and wide-ranging societal challenges of the 21st century such asenergy, food, water, housing, mobility, and health. In addition to imparting scientificknowledge, IIT Jodhpur endeavours to inculcate human qualities of courage, integrity, fairness,humility and team effort among its graduates through curricular, co-curricular andextra-curricular activities on campus. The undergraduate academic programmes focus on developing a temper for the life longprocess of learning, creative thinking and exploring. The postgraduate academic programmesfocus on developing a deep understanding of the subject of study coupled with creativeinquisitiveness and the ability to address and solve new problems with a free and objectiveMind. The academic programmes are based on three tenets of 1 semester system, 2 CreditSystem and 3 Relative Grading. These academic programmes are administered by a dulyconstituted Academic Committee AC through the office of Academics. The AC will be chairedby Dean Academics . In the absence of Dean Academics , Associate Dean Academics-PG Associate Dean Academics- UG will discharge the responsibilities of Dean Academics .The Senate of the Institute has formulated a set of guidelines and rules to ensure a highstandard of performance as well as for smooth functioning of the academic programmes. Withinthis broad set of guidelines, subject to the approval of Senate, different programmes caninclude additional academic requirements as deemed necessary for that programme. Theseacademic programmes are continuously monitored by the Senate and make appropriatemodifications improvements as and when necessary. 2. Academic Session Back to index The academic session normally runs from the end of July in one year to the middle of July in the next year. The academic session is divided into three parts: two regular semesters and a summer term as per the following timelines: Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July. Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester is at least 70. 2.1 Academic Calendar Back to index The academic calendar gives the exact dates of all important events during the Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, the commencement of classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, examinations, submission of grades, project evaluation, declaration of results, mid-semester recess, and vacation. This calendar is approved by the Senate. 3. Registration Back to index Students are required to register for prescribed credits as per the programme, on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. If the student does not register by the date of registration, she he can register by paying the fine and register before the date of late registration. 3.1 Provisional Registration A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final results of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionally on submission of a certificate from her his last Institute stating that she he has appeared in the final examination of the qualifying degree. The student is required to submit documents of having passed the qualifying examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the registration to be regularized. 3.2 Late Registration If the student does not register by the date of late registration as mentioned in the Academic Calendar, he she will be deregistered. The appeal against deregistration may be made to Chairman, Senate through Dean Academics. Chairman Senate may permit the continuation of registration on payment of an appropriate fine. 3.3 Adding and Dropping of Courses A student may add or drop course s with approval ofthe Faculty advisor till the last date of registration. 3.4 Withdrawing from a Course After the last date of add-drop, a student will have theoption of withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be typically withinfour weeks from the beginning of the Semester as specified in the academic calendar. Thewithdrawn course will be mentioned in the Students grade card with a letter grade W. 3.5 Cancellation of Semester Registration Absence for a period of four or more weeksDuring a semester shall result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from allthe courses in that semester. 3.6 Summer Course Registration A department may offer summer courses to enable thestudents to clear their backlog courses and or regular credit courses. A course will run duringsummer provided a faculty member s is available for running the course. The course is offeredon approval of the Dean. 4. Teaching and Evaluation Back to index 4.1 Teaching Back to index 4.1.1 Medium of Instruction The medium of instruction is English. All courses have associated credits. Credits of a course is based on the number of contact hours for lectures, tutorials, and practicals A student on successful completion of the course with a passing grade will earn equivalent number of credits. Based on required academic maturity level of students for attending a course, a course is assigned a level. A course can consist of independent components which can be completed independently. These components are called fractals. A course is identified by a unique number. Following tables define all parameters related to course numbering scheme. Table 4.1 Course Code Description Course Code M E L 1 X X 1 Descriptions Offering Department IDRP Course Type Level of Courses Unique Identification Number Indicates Fractal Categories See Table 4.2 See Table 4.3 See Table 4.4 This code will be given centrally by the office of academics 0: Regular, 1: Fractal-1, 2: Fractal-2, 3: Fractal-3 Note: Examples of course codes Course Title L-T-P Course Code Regular Course Engineering Mechanics 2-1-0 MEL1XX0 Fractal Course Robotics 3-0-2 MEL7XX0 Fractal 1: Robot Modelling 1-0-0 MEL7XX1 Fractal 2: Motion Planning and Programming MEL7XX2 Fractal 3: Robot Control MEL7XX3 Table 4.2 Departmental Code S. N. Type Department Platform Office Department 1 ME Mechanical Engineering 2 CS Computer Science and Engineering 3 EE Electrical Engineering 4 CI Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 5 CH Chemical Engineering 6 BB Bioscience and Bioengineering 7 MT Metallurgical Materials Engineering 8 CY Chemistry 9 MA Mathematics 10 PH Physics 11 HS Humanities and Social Science Interdisciplinary Research Platforms IDRPs 12 DH Digital Humanities 13 SS Space Science and Technology 14 IO Internet of Things and Applications 15 AV Autonomous unmanned vehicles AUV 16 QC Quantum Information and Computation 17 CG Cognitive Science 18 SH Smart Healthcare Others 19 OA Office of Academics 20 OS Office of Students Table 4.3 Types of Courses S. N. Course Type Category 1 L Lecture courses other than lecture hours, these courses can have Tutorial and Practical hours, e.g. L-T-P Structures 3-0-0, 3-1-2, 3-0-2, 2-0-0, etc. 2 P Practical Practice based courses where performance is evaluated primarily on the basis of practice, practical or laboratory work with LTP structures such as 0-0-3, 0-0-4, 1-0-3, 0-1-3, etc. 3 D Project based courses e.g. Major, Minor, Mini Projects 4 N Non-graded core component 5 T Thesis 6 Q Seminar Courses 7 S Independent Study 8 R Product Realization 9 E Engineering Design Graded and Non-Graded Table 4.4 Level of Courses, category and credit requirements S. N. Level Category Credit Requirements 1 100.0 Courses for B.Tech. Programmes B.Tech. Cr . .0 B.Tech. Cr .0 B.Tech. Cr .0 Preparatory Courses of M.Sc. and M.Tech. Programmes NOT open to B.Tech. and B.Tech. M.Tech. Dual Degree M.Tech. Cr 0 M. Sc. Cr .0 Courses for M.Sc. programmes B.Tech. Cr 75 M.Sc. Cr 0 M.Tech. Cr .0 Courses for M.Tech. programmes B.Tech. Cr 100 M.Sc. Cr 30 M.Tech. Cr 0 Ph.D. Cr 0 Advanced courses for M.Sc. 8 800.0 Advanced courses for M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes, An 800 level course should have 700 level course as a pre-requisite M.Tech. Cr 14 Ph.D. Cr .1.3 Approval of Courses The Senate approves each course along with its weight in terms of credits. Only the approved courses may be offered during any semester summer term. 4.1.4 List of Courses The list of courses to be offered in a Program is finalized before the beginning of the semester, by the Department hosting that Program. 4.1.5 Categories of Courses Courses offered can be from one of the following categories: Regular Course: A regular course has 14 hours of class room engagement per one credit. A regular course can be under elective or core compulsory categories.Elective courses of 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or 600, level will run if a minimum of 10 students register for the course. A 700 or 800 level elective course can run with a minimum of 5 registered students. A course not running as a regular course may be offered as a self-study course as per the following section. Self Study Course A self-study course will be from the list of courses approved by Senate. The main features of a self-study course are as follows:A student may be allowed to register for an elective course as a self-study course provided that the course is not running in that semester as a regular course or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. A student may also be permitted to register for a core or program compulsory course in self-study mode provided he she has failed in it earlier and the course is not being offered as a regular course during that semester or a student is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority. Students should apply for a self-study course with the appropriate recommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC DRC interdisciplinary program committee. The final sanction of a self-study course to a student is made by the Dean Academics .Formal classroom engagement may not be there for a self-study course but laboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integral part of the course.The Course Coordinator conducts the assessment as per the evaluation norms for the award of letter grade at the end of the semester.A self-study course will appear with the approved course title on the transcript. Independent Study Course Independent study enables a student to pursue course credit on an academic topic of interestunder the supervision of a faculty member. The term independent does not mean not involvingan Instructor but independent of regular class engagement. Self-disciplined and having a senseof own direction and goals are fundamental requirements of an Independent Study course. Astudent having CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 can opt for Independent Study courses with therecommendation of Supervising Professor. The main features of an independent-study courseare as follows: A student may be permitted to register for a topic of interest as an independent-studycourse not exceeding 3 credits in self-study mode at most once during the program.Such independent study course will be counted toward open elective requirements of theprogram and will appear with the title Independent Study on the transcript. Students should apply for an independent study course with the appropriaterecommendation of a Course Coordinator and DUGC DRC IRC. The final sanction of anindependent-study course to a student is made by the Dean Academics . Normally, no formal lectures will be held for an Independent Study course butlaboratory, design and computation exercises will be conducted if they form an integralpart of the course. 4.1.6 Conduct of Courses Each course is conducted by the Instructor with the assistance of the required number of tutors, as needed. The Instructor is responsible for conducting the course, evaluating the performance of students, awarding the grades at the end of the semester, and transmitting the grades as per Subsection 5.2. A course approved by the senate of IIT Jodhpur can be conducted through either i direct contact ii synchronized remote contact iii guided study mode or combination of these. In direct contact mode, coordinator or instructor will have a face to face physical interaction with the students. Synchronized remote contact mode would require the faculty and or the students to be concurrently connected to the class-room interaction via electronic conferencing involving both audio and video communication. However, there has to be direct interaction between faculty and students for limited hours typically 25 of the stipulated contact hours. In guided study mode, a faculty would guide a single or a group of students to take up study of an approved course via self-learning and discussion-oriented contact sessions. This mode can be also adopted for enabling a student to take up study of a new course, not yet approved by the senate, under supervision of a faculty. All formal evaluation component applicable to courses being run through any one of the above-mentioned modes will be conducted under direct physical supervision of a faculty. All laboratory component of a course requiring use of specialized facility will be conducted through direct contact. The student shall have access to his her answer paper s of all the written examinations conducted for a given course, which may be shown to him her by the Instructor s concerned. The instructor must keep all evaluation records in his custody at least for the next six months. 4.1.7 Teaching Assignments The instructors and tutors for all courses to be offered during the semester are allocated by the Head of the Department hosting the Program. When faculty members of other Departments are also required to participate in teaching a particular course, the allocation shall be done in consultation with the Head of that Department. 4.1.8 Auditing of Courses A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribed academic load requirement with the permission of the Instructor of the course being audited and the Faculty Advisor. Under this arrangement, the course will be listed in the Grade Card of the student. 4.1.9 Attendance Requirements A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless the student takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to attend every lecture, tutorial, or lab session. The attendance records must be made available to the student after every lecture. Even if the students attendance falls below 75 , the student will be allowed to appear for the exams. Students not meeting the attendance criterion of 75 will be required to score at least C grade to pass a course. These students would be awarded F grade if their marks are lower than the cut-off for C grade in a course. 4.2 Evaluation Back to index The performance of students in a course is evaluated continuously, using their interaction in the classroom, and performances in examinations, the laboratory work if any , and term-papers and projects. The performance of students in a course is evaluated through examinations and on a continuous basis. The Senate will decide from time to time on the system of tests and examinations in each subject in each semester.Minor 1, Minor 2 and Major examinations are mandatory components of the evaluation of a regular 14-week long lecture course. The minor examinations shall be of 60 minutes duration and the major examination of 120 minutes. Fractal courses less than 3 credits must have at least one examination.The total weightage of examination component three examinations for a 14 week long course shall be between 40 to 60 of the total weightage of evaluation measure.Evaluation policy has to be known from the first day of the class.The continuous evaluation may include but not limited to interaction in the classroom, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. 5. Grading System Back to index 5.1 Letter Grades Back to index 5.1 Letter Grades At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter grade in each course by the Instructor offering the course considering the performance of the student during the semester with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. It is proposed that ten regular letter grades, namely A , A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, E and F shall be awarded in each course. Each letter grade is associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale shown in Table 5.1. In addition, there are four special letter grades, namely, I, S, X and U, which stand for Incomplete, Satisfactory, Thesis Continuation and Unsatisfactory, respectively. The faculty member shall upload grade on the portal as per the stipulated time schedule. Table 5.1 Letter grade and its equivalent grade points S.N. Letter Grade Grade Points Comment 1 A 10 Exceptional 2 A 10 Outstanding 3 A- 9 Excellent 4 B 8 Very Good 5 B- 7 Good 6 C 6 Average 7 C- 5 Below Average 8 D 4 Marginal 9 E 2 Poor 10 F 0 Fail 11 I Incomplete 12 S Satisfactory in Course 13 X Thesis Continuation 14 U Unsatisfactory 15 W Withdrawn A detailed description of some of the grades is given below: S.N. Grades Description 1 A A grade has the same grade point as A grade. The grade A indicates exceptional performance and is awarded only in the Course s in which the number of registered students is more than 50. It should not exceed 2 of the total strength of the particular theory or lab course. The grade A is not awarded for projects seminars. 2 E E Grade will be awarded to a student who has scored marks less than the cutoff marks for D Grade and has met the attendance criterion of the institute. Students who obtain an E Grade will be eligible to appear in an additional examination. If they perform satisfactorily, they become eligible for getting the E grade converted to a D Grade, otherwise, they will continue to have E Grade. The student will have only one chance to appear for the additional examination for an E Grade. The additional examination will be conducted within the first week of the next semester. The date of additional examination of Institute core courses for undergraduate students centrally notified, while for all other courses, the date would be announced by the respective course coordinators. A student can appear for a maximum of three such additional tests in a given semester. If a student cannot appear for the test due to any reason s , he she will not get any additional chance. If a student with E grade in a course does not pass the course through the additional test, or obtains an F grade in the course, he she has to repeat the course if it is a core course. In case the course is an elective, the student may take the same course again or any other course. E and F Grades are not counted in the calculation of the CGPA; however, these are taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA. 3 I An I grade is temporarily awarded to a student on his her request to denote incomplete performance in a course on approval of instructor. An I grade is awarded in case missing an evaluation component due to absence on medical grounds or other special circumstances. Requests for I grade should be made at the earliest but not later than the last day of major tests. All evaluation requirements for such students in the corresponding course s should be completed before the end of the first week of the next semester. Upon completion of all course requirements, the I grade is converted to a regular grade. 4 S This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in non-graded and Audit courses. If the stipulated requirements are not fulfilled, the unsatisfactory U grade is awarded. The grades obtained in an audit course are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 5 X This grade is awarded to a student with satisfactory performance in thesis for continuation 6 U This grade is awarded to a student with unsatisfactory performance in thesis, audit or non-graded courses. 7 W This grade is awarded to a student who has opted to withdraw from a course. Withdrawal from a course is permitted until the date specified in the Academics Calendar. 5.2 Procedure for declaration of results Back to index The following procedure would be followed for declaration of results and time line would be as per Academic Calendar.Evaluation scheme to be displayed by instructors at the start of a semester:Display of answer sheets and all scores by instructors.Finalization of grades by instructorsGrade moderation by department institute level committee for department institute wide coursesRecommendation of grades by the Head of the Department after scrutiny of grades by a moderation committeeDisplay of grades by InstructorsGrade correction, if any, within 48 hours of display of grades after approval of the head of the departmentApproval of Grade by the Dean UG PG Associate Dean UG PGs Finalization of results by the Dean UG PG Associate Dean UG PG Approval of results by the Chairman SenateResults once approved cannot be changed under any circumstance. In exceptional cases, the Student may appeal to the Chairman, Senate for reconsideration, with formal justification. 5.3 Grade Point Averages Back to index 5.3.1 Semester Grade Point Average The Semester Grade Point Average SGPA is a weighted average of the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by her him and reflects her his academic performance in the respective semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades earned by a student in N courses registered during a semester are G1, G2, GN, and the corresponding credits C1, C2, CN, then the SGPA is given by the following formula: The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses and courses in which S X grade is awarded, registered in a particular semester. 5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average The Cumulative Grade Point Average CGPA indicates the overall academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to the latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed similarly as the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades A , A, A-, B, B-, C, C-, D , except audit courses and courses in which S X grade is awarded, obtained in all completed semesters. The SGPA and CGPA calculation is based on credits earned completed at IIT Jodhpur alone. 6. Grade Card and Transcript Back to index A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each semester, and a Transcript at the end of the Programme. IIT Jodhpur Grade Card and Transcript will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits without grades earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester, if applicable. 7. Waiver of Requirements in Special Cases Back to index The rules and regulations procedures and requirements stated in this manual, other than those related to Admissions to the academic programmes, may be waived in special circumstances by the AC on the recommendation of the Department with the approval of Chairman, Senate. All such exceptions have to be reported to the Senate. 8. Make-up Examinations Back to index A student who has missed minor s or the major examination due to genuine reasons like illness etc. may be permitted to write a make-up examination for the missed components. The student should make an application to the Dean Academics through the course instructor within ten days from the date of the examination missed, explaining the reasons for their absence. Applications received after this period need not be entertained. The permission to take a make-up examination will be given under exceptional circumstances such as admission to a hospital due to illness. A student needs to produce the necessary document subject to one of the following categories: Students residing in the Hostels should produce a Medical Certificate issued by the Medical Officer of the Institute that he she was admitted in the Hospital during the period of the missed quiz exam.Students residing in the Hostels and taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain written permission from the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital before they proceed for such consultation.Students residing in the hostels but taking medical consultation with outside Doctors are required to obtain an endorsement on the certificate of treatment by the Medical Officer of the Institute Hospital.A student staying outside the Campus permanently temporarily must produce a medical certificate from the Registered Medical Practitioner and the same should be duly endorsed by the parent guardian. A slot- wise make-up examination for major will be held during the makeup supplementary week as per Academic Calendar of the subsequent semester for those who are permitted to take the make-up examination. A student who misses this make-up examination will not normally be given another make-up examination. However, in exceptional cases of prolonged illness resulting in the student missing a make-up examination, the Chairman of the Senate, in consultation with the Dean of Academics may permit the student to appear for make-up examination any day before the end of the first week of the next semester. Under no circumstances prorating can be done for the missed examinations or attendance. Regulations for Undergraduate Programmes Back to index 9. Undergraduate Programs Back to index IIT Jodhpur currently offers Bachelor of Technology B. Tech. programs, and capability linked opportunities for undergraduate students through Minor Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M.Tech. in Minor Interdisciplinary Area, Department Area Specialization leading to M.Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M.Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Product Realization through Industrial Translation . 10. Undergraduate Admissions Back to index 10.1 B.Tech. Programmes Back to index 10.1.1 General Admissions Admissions to the B.Tech. Programmes are made once a year in July through the all-India level Joint Entrance Examination JEE conducted by IITs. The procedures and other requirements for admission are specified in the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year. 10.1.2 Cultural Exchange Programmes Admissions are also offered to foreign nationals under the Cultural Exchange Fellowship Program of the Government of India, administered by Indian Council of Cultural Relations ICCR , New Delhi. Persons interested in these Programs are required to apply through the Indian High Commission Embassy in their respective countries. 10.1.3 Change Enhancement of Program A student already admitted to a B.Tech. programme may switch to another department through branch change. A student can enhance his her programme to a Minor Interdisciplinary Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Minor Interdisciplinary Area, Major Department Area Specialization leading to M. Tech. in Department Area, Minor in Entrepreneurship, Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to M. Tech. in Entrepreneurship and Department Area Specialization in Product Realization through Industrial Translation . The rules governing these changes are given in Section 18 branch change and Section 11.2 for all others . 10.2 Reservation Policy Back to index The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 10.3 Student Exchange Programme Back to index Student Exchange Program provides for a one two-semester visit by students between the two academic institutions on a reciprocal basis. The visiting student must be a full-time student enrolled in a degree program in their Home Institution. The exchange program is open to full-time undergraduate and graduate students of each Home Institution. It will be executed as per the pre-approved arrangement including an MoU between the institutions. Selection of students under such program will be made by the DUGC after assessing the preparedness of students to meet the requirements of the planned coursework research at the Host Institution and the relevance of the planned coursework research to the enrolled degree program. A visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities as per pre-approved arrangement including an MoU . Under exchange program, a student of IIT Jodhpur can register at another academic institution in India or abroad with the expectation of credit transfer up to 20 credits per semester in lieu of the course work or research work through a pre-approved arrangement including an MoU. On return, the student may apply to DUGC for waiver of credits from her his program requirements which s he thinks are equivalent to the courses successfully completed at the visited academic institution as an exchange student. With the application, the student must submit an official transcript of the grades obtained by her him at the visited academic institution as an exchange student and other documents material that the concerned DUGC may require for evaluation. The DUGC will determine, by whatever means it deems fit, the equivalent credits requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in her his programme at IIT Jodhpur. DUGC will submit its recommendations to course equivalence committee for its approval. Moreover, The credits grades indicated in the grade sheet obtained from the academic institution in which the student has completed the courses should be used by the student as part of his her transcripts. IIT Jodhpur transcripts will only indicate the courses, credits and grades completed at IIT Jodhpur and the total number of credits without grades earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester. The CGPA calculation based on credits earned completed at IIT Jodhpur alone is to be considered for award of prizes. Academic Regulations 10.4 Visiting Students Back to index A visiting student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially permitted by that institute or university to complete part of his her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the visiting student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. A person can be admitted as a visiting student on a duly sponsored application to the Dean Academics . A visiting student may be admitted for a maximum period of one year. A visiting student will be required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, Program, and nationality. Students so admitted also will be governed by all rules, regulations, and discipline applicable to regular students of the Institute. 10.5 Cancellation of Admission Back to index Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any Program shall submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional certificates, etc. of the qualifying examination and other documents by the last date specified for the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student, who fails to submit the prescribed documents by the specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement s . Also, the Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission at any later time, if it is found that the student had provided some false information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission. 10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements Back to index Admission to any undergraduate Program requires that the applicant be eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and pay the prescribed fees. The Senate should formally approve all admissions to the Undergraduate Programmes. 11. Curriculum and Academic Requirements Back to index 11.1 Academic Load Calculation of Credits for a Course for UG Programmes Back to index The total credits for a course is calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours L-T-P assigned as given in Table 11.1. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours on an average to be spend by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 11.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours Total Credits TC TH 3 Contact Hours CH Beyond ContactHours BCH TotalHours TH 1 hour of Lecture hour of Tutorial hour of Lab .5 1.5 0.5 0. hour of Project .2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students Back to index Major Department Specialization Interdisciplinary Specialization Minor B.Tech. M.Tech. Dual Degree 11.2.1 Eligibility Criteria for opting a Major Department Specialization, Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization A student should have earned minimum 100 credits with the CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 at the end on 6th semester to opt for capability linked opportunity. b B.Tech. M.Tech. Dual Degree in chosen specialization Students who have already opted for Major Department Specialization, Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization can opt for dual-degree Programme from the eighth semester provided they have earned minimum 134 Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end of the 7th semester. 11.2.2 Minimum Credit requirements a Major Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor A student needs to complete a total of 20 Credits in the Major Department Specialization or Minor Interdisciplinary Specialization area offered. 10 Credits out of 20 can be taken up as a part of Open electives whereas the student is required to opt for an additional 10 credits in the form of course overload. This will be indicated on the degree. Registration for Additional Courses for Major Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor Starting from the sixth semester, students having earned 80 credits with CGPA more than or equal to 6.0 are permitted to take up to 4 extra Credits as part of their normal load, which forms part of her his additional learning component, every semester in addition to the prescribed courses for their degree. b B.Tech. M.Tech. Dual Degree in chosen specialization A student needs to complete a total of 56 Credits in the Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary area offered. It will include credits earned for Major Department or Minor Interdisciplinary area Specialization excluding the project credits. 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes Back to index Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes are given in the table below: Course Categories and Academic requirements Table 11.3 Course Categories and Academic requirements S.N. Course Type Course Category B.Tech.Regular B.Tech.with Specialization Dual Degree 1 Institute Core I Engineering IE 34.0 34.0 34.0 Science IS 16.0 16.0 16.0 Humanities IH 12.0 12.0 12. Programme Linked L Science LS 7.0 7.0 7. Programme Core P Programme Compulsory PC 50.0 50.0 50.0 Programme Electives PE 18.0 18.0 18.0 B.Tech. Project PP 3.0 3.0 3. Open O Electives OE 10.0 0.0 0. Specialization Major Minor Department Interdisciplinary S Compulsory SC 0.0 8.0 8.0 Elective SE 0.0 12.0 12 6 M.Tech. M in Minor, Department, or Interdisciplinary Area Compulsory MC 0.0 0.0 9 Electives ME 0.0 0.0 5 Project MP 0.0 0.0 16 Open Electives MO 0.0 0.0 6 Total Graded 150.0 160. Non-Graded N Humanities NH 6.0 6.0 6.0 Engineering NE 3.0 3.0 3.0 Design Practical Experience ND 6.0 6.0 6. .0 175.0 211 Must not include any project course 11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program Back to index The maximum duration for the completion B.Tech. Programs shall be 14 registered semesters. 11.5 Academic Performance Requirements Back to index The minimum requirements on credits earned for continuation in a B. Tech. Programme at the end of the second registered semester is specified in the following table: Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester Description Minimum number of credits to be earned GEN OBC GEN-EWS SC ST PD Minimum for Continuation 18 14 If a student does not meet the criterion specified in Table 11.3, he she may opt to restart the programme or else their registration will be terminated. The restart will be permitted only once. If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then the credits earned and semesters registered till that point will not be counted towards the graduation requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript. 11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes Back to index The students of dual-degree programmes will be considered for award of institute research teaching assistantship if they have earned 150 credits by the end of the eighth semester. Only those students who have either qualified GATE or have a CGPA more than 8.0 will be eligible for this assistantship. The assistantship will be provided for a maximum period of 14 months beginning from the summer semester following the eighth semester, provided the student is registered for M.Tech. Major Project in that semester. A student availing assistantship will be required to provide 8 hours of assistance per week besides his her normal academic work. For continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5. A student receiving assistantship will be eligible for a total of 30 days leave during the 14-month period. He she will not be entitled to mid-semester breaks, winter and summer vacations. 12. UG Registration Back to index 12.1 Summer Courses Back to index Students can register for courses during summer up to a maximum of Eight Credits on payment of registration fee at prescribed rates. The summer term is not a regular semester and only academically deficient students who have low CGPA and or fewer credits than advised by the curriculum till that point in the programme , Major students, Minor students, and such students who are short of maximum Eight Credits to complete all graduation requirements may register during this period. For core courses, only students with failed backlog may be considered for summer registration. In case any vacancies are left in the courses being offered during the summer term once the requirements of the above categories of students are fulfilled, other students may register for these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance. The total number of contact hours for the courses remains the same as that during the regular semesters, and therefore the courses run at an accelerated pace. The evaluation and grading patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters. 12.2 Limits on Registration Back to index An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester.The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25.An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits per semester for independent-study or self-study course 12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load Back to index Under-load: Students who are identified as academically deficient on academic probation may register for a maximum of 16 credits. Over-load: Overloading may be allowed only for students who are not on academic probation and satisfy one of the following criteria: Students are allowed to overload only when they need 70 or less additional credits to complete all the requirements of their programme. Beyond the second semester, any student with a CGPA of 7.5 or higher may be allowed to overload. 12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree Programme Back to index A B.Tech. Student having opted for major minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end of the seventh semester and fulfilling requirements mentioned earlier may be allowed to switch to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 13. Evaluation of Special UG only courses Back to index 13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation Back to index DUGC will appoint a committee for B.Tech. Project evaluation. The committee will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project.DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students. The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students 13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee DUGC Back to index The DUGC will be constituted of all UG Faculty Advisors and Head of Department. The Head of Department will be the chairperson and one of the faculty advisors would be the convenor. 13.3 Engineering Innovation Back to index At the completion of an Engineering Innovation Project the student will submit a reportwhich will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner s by DUGC.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day ofthe class. 13.4 Design Project Evaluation Back to index At the completion of a project, the student will submit a project report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner s by DUGC.The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project and S or U grade is awarded.Evaluation policy has to be declared by the concerned department from the first day of the class. 13.5 Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project Back to index Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor s .The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester.Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor s .The evaluation criterion would be same as Section 25. The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the eighth semester Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor s . The evaluation criterion would be the same as Section 25. 13.6 Entrepreneurship Project Back to index At the completion of Entrepreneurship, the student will submit a report which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner s by Dean Academics-UG Associate Dean Academics-UG . The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded. 14. Termination Back to index 14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program Back to index A student may be terminated from the B.Tech. Programme by AC, if the student a Is absent without authorized leave of absence for eight weeks or more in a semester; OR b Fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a bonafide reason; OR c Violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc. as confirmed by a Committee constituted for the purpose; OR d Does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within the maximum duration of the program; OR e Is on academic probation for two consecutive semesters. 14.2 Appeal against Termination Back to index A student, who is terminated from the B.Tech. Program can appeal to the Chairman, Senate, for reconsideration. While making such an appeal, the student is expected to give reasons for poor academic performance and or why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the Senate will not entertain any further appeal for review, unless substantial additional information is brought to its notice. 15. Leave Rules Back to index Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DUGC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DUGC. 15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation Back to index Undergraduate students are entitled to avail of mid-semester recess and vacation as specified in the Academic Calendar. 15.2 Short Leave Back to index A student may be granted leave of absence during the semester for a maximum of 10 days on medical grounds, and for 5 days for any other valid reason. 15.3 Semester Withdrawal Back to index It may be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. DUGC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 15.4 Academic Leave Back to index To help students broaden their horizons and gain course work experience, she he may be permitted to proceed to other academic institutes Industry R D organization in India or abroad. Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as Fieldwork Experimental work training using specialized facility not available at IITJ Entrepreneurship initiative Product realization through industrial translation Exchange program as part of an exchange program with an academic institution in India or abroad Internship work All such requests must be evaluated and approved by DUGC before the leave is granted.A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one summer term and two semesters on academic leave.A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 20 credits per semester as certified by the DUGC and approved by the Course Equivalence Committee. 16. Branch Change Back to index The branch change of the student in another branch and engineering science is permitted after the completion of the 1st year after completing all academic requirements of the credits including non-graded courses. The eligibility criteria of the branch change is as follows: E1: The student must have completed all prescribed course credits for the previous semesters including the non-graded courses . E2: The student has no backlog. E3: No disciplinary Action has been imposed on the student. Table: Summary of branch change criteria for students in UG B.Tech. B.S. Programs After Sem Branch Enrolled Branch Applied CGPA Eligibility Lower Limit Upper Limit II Any Any CGPA 8.5 Others CGPA 7.5 For SC,ST, PWD E1 E2 E3 90 of current Strength 110 of Sanctioned Strength II Any ES CGPA 8 Others CGPA 7 For SC,ST, PWD E1 E2 E3 90 of current Strength 30 Note: 1. No Branch Change post second year onwards. 2. This will be applicable to UG Students admitted in academic year 2025-26. 3. If the calculated upper limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the upper limit for seats will be the lower rounded number floor operation . 4. If the calculated lower limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the lower limit for seats will be the higher rounded number ceiloperation . 17. Requirements Back to index A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she he has met the conditions laid down in the following Clauses 17.1 to 17.4 17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence Back to index Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Minimum Duration of Residence in semesters 1 B. Tech. including minor department interdisciplinary area specialization B. Tech. M.Tech. .2 Academic Back to index The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she he has earned the minimum credits as per Table 11.2 in Section 11.3 for all degrees. 17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues Back to index The degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean Academics . 17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action Back to index The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her him. 17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO Back to index The student should have completed extra-curricular activity like performing arts, sports, National Cadet Corps, National Service Schemes, and National Sports Organisation for a period of at least two Semesters during their B.Tech. Program. 17.6 Award of Degrees Back to index 17.6.1 Provisional Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, can be provided a provisional certificate by the office of Dean Academics on the approval of Chairman, Senate. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.2 Degree Certificate A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors BOG for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. Certificate will have mention of major, minor, Department or Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable. 17.6.3 Withdrawal of Degree Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors withdrawal of a degree already awarded to the student. 18. Amendments Back to index Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify amend without notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to its B.Tech. Programs. Regulations for Postgraduate Programmes Back to index 19. Postgraduate Programmes Back to index The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur currently offers the following Postgraduate programmes. Master of Science M.Sc. Dual degree: M.Sc.-M.Tech Master of Technology M.Tech. Dual degree: M.Tech.-PhD. Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. 20. Postgraduate admissions Back to index The process of admission for all the programs offered by the Institute normally is underway during April-May for Semester 1 and during November-December for Semester 2. In addition, the department may process applications for admissions to PhD programs on a continuous basis and admit students as per the existing procedure. 20.1 Categories of Admission Back to index A candidate can be admitted in any one of the following categories Full-time regular Full-time sponsored Part-time External Executive However, all categories are not applicable for all PG Programs. Further, programmes can be offered in a combination of these modes like fully sponsored part-time program . i Full-time Regular In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. A student supported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular student. ii Full-time Sponsored In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester. The candidate is sponsored either by his her employer or by self. A self-sponsored candidate must have two years of relevant industrial R D academic experience. iii Part-time A part-time student is a working professional who, while employed, attend regular classes as per the schedule of the Institute. The student must be employed in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOC from the employer for pursuing the programme at IIT Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limited number of credits as compared to a full-time regular student. iv External A student working in an industry R D establishment academic institution which is equipped with the necessary research and library facilities. The employer must relieve the student to stay in the campus to complete the minimum residency requirements. v Executive only for M. Tech. A professional who can carry out complete the programme requirement in An accelerated fashion minimum in 12 months , OR Accumulates credits as per convenience and petitions a degree in a maximum of 6 years. The part-time or full-time mode by attending courses offered in synchronized remote contact mode and limited direct interaction 20.2 Eligibility for Admission Back to index The eligibility conditions given below are the absolute minimum. Departments may prescribe any requirements over and above, subject to the approval of the Senate. The number of admissions that can be made to any program shall be decided by the Senate from time to time. Reservation of seats for various reserved categories shall be prescribed by the Board of Governors. 20.2.1 Admission to M. Sc. Program Regular The admission to the M.Sc. Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues. The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master JAM organized by IITs. The applicants having a bachelors degree in any relevant discipline 3- or 4-year program may be admitted based on written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category b must have a minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 OR a first-class as specified by the university institute. 20.2.2 Admission to M Sc M Tech Dual Degree Program Regular The admission to the M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree Programs offered by the Institute will be through any one of the following two avenues The applicants qualified through the Joint Admission Test for Master JAM organized by IITs. The applicants having a bachelors degree in any relevant discipline 3- or 4-year program may be admitted based on written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. The applicants under the category b must have a minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 OR a first-class as specified by the university institute. 20.2.3 Admission to M Tech Program Regular The applicant must have bachelors degree in engineering or science 4 year program or a masters degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Sciences, Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Sciences or in a related field A minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 or a first-class as specified by the university institute. The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.4 Admission to MTech Program Executive Part-time External Sponsored The applicant must have bachelors degree in engineering or science 4-year program or a masters degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field. A minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 or a first-class as specified by the university institute. The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience after qualifying degree in industry R D laboratories Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. However, the credit accumulation for the program may start immediately after the qualifying degree. Petitioning for the degree can happen only 1 year after registration. The applicant must qualify the written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.5 Admission to M .Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Program Regular The applicant must have bachelors degree in engineering or science 4-year program or a masters degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Science, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science or in a related field A minimum of 60 marks for GEN OBC 55 for SC ST category in aggregate or as specified by the university institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN OBC 5.5 for SC ST category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 for example 4.8 for GEN OBC category 4.4 for SC ST on a scale of 8 or a first-class as specified by the university institute. The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination or have qualified in the written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.2.6 Admission to Ph.D. Program Regular Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of any organization in India or abroad. The applicant must have a masters degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60 marks or at least 6.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN GEN-EWS OBC 55 for SC ST , The applicant must have MBBS with MD MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60 marks or at least 6.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN GEN-EWS OBC 55 for SC ST in bachelors degree, The applicant must have a bachelors degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70 marks or at least 7.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN OBC 65 for SC ST . 20.2.7 Admission under any special scheme like Quality Improvement Programme QIP , Defence Personnel The procedures and criteria for admission of these candidates can be decided with the approval of Chairman, Senate. 20.2.8. Admission of Indian Nationals Residing Abroad INRA and Foreign Nationals INRA candidates must have been residing abroad continuously for at least one year at the time of applying for admission. The applications of INRA and foreign nationals may be processed by the departments as and when they are received or according to any schedule convenient to the department. The applications should be scrutinized to make sure that, both in terms of qualifications and attainment they are comparable with the candidates admitted in the general category. Department will conduct VC based interview for ascertaining suitability of the candidate. The applications of foreign nationals, who are sponsored by the Indian Council of Cultural Relations ICCR will be scrutinized by the department concerned to assess their suitability for admission to the programme. The departments recommendation will be sent to the Chairperson, Senate through the Chairperson, AC. 20.2.9 Admission to Ph.D sponsored external part-time Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad. The applicant must have a masters degree in engineering, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management with at least 60 marks or at least 6.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN GEN-EWS OBC 55 for SC ST , The applicant must have MBBS with MD MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60 marks or at least 6.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN GEN-EWS OBC 55 for SC ST in bachelors degree, The applicant must have a bachelors degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70 marks or at least 7.0 10 CPI or CGPA for GEN OBC 65 for SC ST . The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience after qualifying degree in industry R D laboratories Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the program. The applicant must qualify the written test and or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur. 20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in a recognized institute or university in India or abroad, and who is officially sponsored by that institute or university to complete part of his her academic requirements at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the non-degree student may carry out research or take courses for credit or otherwise or may use other academic facilities. Any candidate can be admitted as a casual student for specific courses provided the candidate satisfies the minimum eligibility criteria specified in Section 20.2. The application must be routed through the office of Dean R D. Students so admitted will be governed by all rules, regulations and discipline of the Institute. 20.4 Reservation Policy The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed. 21 PG Registration Back to index 21.1 Limits on Registration Back to index Maximum and minimum number of credits a student can register in different programs: M.Sc.: An M.Sc. student can register for a maximum of 24 credits and a minimum of 10 credits in a semester. M.Tech.: An M.Tech. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.1. Table 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester Summer Term M.Tech. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Regular Semester Executive Accelerated 24 10 Executive Normal 17 10 Executive Slow-Paced 12 3 Executive Part-Time 12 3 Full-time Regular Sponsored 17 10 External 20 10 Part-time 12 3 Summer Term Executive Accelerated 16 0 Executive Normal 9 0 Executive Slow-Paced 6 0 Full-time Regular 9 5 Full-time Sponsored 9 0 External 9 0 Part-time 6 0 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester Summer Term Insert TableTable 21.1 Maximum and Minimum Credits an M.Tech. student can register for during the Regular semester Summer Term M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Direct Ph.D. Joining after B.Tech. The maximum and minimum credits that an M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree student can register are equivalent to that of an M.Tech. Regular External Part-time student. Ph.D.: A Ph.D. student can register for maximum and minimum credits as per Table 21.2. Table 21.2 Maximum and Minimum Credits a Ph.D. student Regular can register for during the Regular semester Ph.D. student registered under different categories Maximum Credits Minimum Credits Full-time Regular 12 6 External 12 6 Part-Time .1.1 Registration Kept Alive RKA A student admitted to an M.Tech program who has at least completed minimum credit requirement of the first semester, can keep his studentship alive while he is pursuing any professional activity, by opting for RKA in subsequent semesters. The candidate must indicate his intent of RKA before the last date of late registration through DRC to Dean academic . The candidate has to pay appropriate registration fees for RKA status. A student can maintain RKA status for a maximum of 6 semesters. 21.2 Change of Registration from M.Tech. Programme to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Programme Back to index A regular student registered for the M.Tech. programme having CGPA 8 or more at the end of the second semester may be allowed to switch to M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program till the end of the third semester. As a special case, a student can switch to a dual degree in the fourth semester with the approval of DRC, provided his her CGPA is 8 or more, who will then be required to complete his her candidacy requirements by the end of the fifth semester. All conditions of M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree program will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 21.3 Change of Registration from Part-Time M.Tech. to Part-Time Ph.D. Program Back to index A part-time M.Tech. student having CGPA 8 or more after completion of at least 24 credits may be allowed to change his her registration to the Ph.D. program. The credits earned will be counted towards his her Ph.D. course work requirements. 21.4 Change of Registration from Full-Time to Part-Time External Ph.D. Programme Back to index A student admitted to a full-time Ph.D. programme may be permitted to change to a part-time Ph.D. programme. A student requesting such a conversion must: have successfully completed his her candidacy requirement; get the request endorsed by the supervisor s and the DRC; produce a No Objection Certificate from his her employer for carrying out the research work. 21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program Back to index M.Sc. 8 registered semester M.Tech. Regular and Part-time External Executive 12 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive RKA after completion of the first semester. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as at of sponsored candidates. Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree Regular and Part-time External 14 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive RKA after completion of the two semesters. Tuition fee post RKA will be same as that of sponsored candidates. Students may request for RKA to Dean Academics through DRC. 21.6 Course Registration Back to index Students will be eligible to register for courses as per the criterion specified in Section 21.1 and Table 4.4. The DRC IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during her his Masters or Bachelors program. 22 Academic Requirements Back to index 22.1 Academic Load Calculation of Credits for a Course for PG Programmes Back to index The total credits for a course are calculated by taking into account the number of lectures, tutorial, and practical hours L-T-P assigned as given in Table 22.1 and 22.2 for M.Sc. and M.Tech. Ph.D. programmes respectively. Each credit is associated with the number of contact hours and the expected number of self-learning hours on an average to be spent by the student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course. Table 22.1 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Sc. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours Total Credits TC TH 3 Contact Hours CH Beyond ContactHours BCH TotalHours TH 1 hour of Lecture . hour of Tutorial . hour of Lab .5 1.5 0. hour of Project .0 Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. Table 22.2 LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Tech. Ph.D. Type L-T-P Distribution of contact and beyond contact Hours Total Credits TC TH 4 Contact Hours CH Beyond ContactHours BCH TotalHours TH 1 hour of Lecture . hour of Tutorial . hour of Lab . hour of Project . hour of Thesis Ph.D. .0 Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc. h4 22.2 Course categories for Masters programmes Back to index Compulsory Course MC Programme Elective ME Open Elective MO Project works MP Non-graded NG 22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students Back to index Course categories and academic requirements for M.Sc. students are given below in Table 22.3. Table 22.3 Programs Credits to be earned for MSc students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP Total M.Sc. Chemistry M.Sc. Mathematics M.Sc. Physics .4 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Students Executive M.Tech. Back to index Course categories and academic requirements for M.Tech. students are given below in Table 22.4. Table 22.4 Minimum Credits to be earned For MTech students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech Sensors and Internet of Things M.Tech Cyber Physical System M.Tech Thermofluids Engineering M.Tech Advanced Manufacturing Engineering and Design M.Tech Metallurgical and Materials Engineering M.Tech Artificial Intelligence M.Tech Computer Science and Engineering M.Tech Bioscience and Bioengineering M.Tech Data and Computational Sciences .5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. M.Tech. Dual Degree Back to index Minimum credit requirements for M.Sc. M.Tech. Dual Degree is the cumulative sum of credit requirements for respective M.Sc. program and M.Tech. program as mentioned in Sections 22.3 and 22.4. 22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Back to index Course categories and academic requirements for MTech PhD dual degree students are given below in Table 22.5. Table 22.5 Minimum Credits to be earned for dual degree MTech and PhD students Programs Minimum Credits to be earned MC ME MO MP NG Total M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Sensors and Internet of Things M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Cyber Physical System M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Communication and Signal Processing M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Thermofluids Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Manufacturing Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Design Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Metallurgical and Materials Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Computer Science and Engineering M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Artificial Intelligence M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree Bioscience and Bioengineering The DRC IRC must oversee that the student has not registered for a similar course during Bachelors program and take necessary corrective action by suggesting alternative courses 22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students Back to index The minimum credits to be earned through courses is listed in Table 22.6. Table 22.6 Credit Requirements for PhD students S.No. Ph.D. in With Minimum Credits through Course Work Minimum Credits through Thesis Work 1.0 Engineering discipline IDRP M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. Engineering in an Engineering discipline 12 48 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 30 48 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. Engineering in an Engineering discipline .0 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline .8 Academic Performance Requirements Back to index 22.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is given in below Table 22.7. Table 22.7 Minimum CGPA requirements Sr. No. Program Continuation in Programme For graduation 1 M.Sc. only graduation requirement Refer 22.8. M.Tech. Dual Degree M.Sc. and M.Tech. Dual Degree M.Tech. and Ph.D. Ph.D. 7 7.5 at completion of course work 22.8.2 Continuing criteria for M.Sc. M.Sc.- The student must earn at least 20 credits at the end of the second semester for continuation in the program. 22.8.3 Minimum performance for continuation Assistantship Fellowship The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation Assistantship Fellowship is given in below Table 22.8 Table 22.8 Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship Fellowship Sr. No. Program Continuation of Assistantship Fellowship 1 M.Tech. 6. Dual Degree M.Tech. and Ph.D. 7. Ph.D. 7. . Leave Rules Back to index Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the Convener DRC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the DRC. 23.1 Leave Back to index A maximum of 30 days in an academic year including leave on medical grounds mid semester break . The student must apply for leave in advance even during the summer winter term or mid-semester break. A PhD student cannot avail leave for more than 15 days at a stretch An M.Tech. M.Sc. student cannot avail leave for more than 10 days at a stretch The leave beyond 30 days in an Academic Year may be granted in exceptional cases by DRC without assistantship during that period. 23.2 Other Leaves Back to index Maternity leave for Ph.D. students is sanctioned as per the directives of MHRD. It will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme. Any other leave may also be permissible as per the guidelines of MHRD. 23.3 Semester Withdrawal Back to index May be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. In all such cases, the fellowship will be stopped with immediate effect and it will be continued for only after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve and intimate Office of Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student. 23.4 Academic Leave Back to index Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as Fieldwork Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library Experimental work training using specialized facility not available at IITJ Attending conferences workshops summer winter schools symposium Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech. Ph.D. supervision Collaborative work for a specific problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme as indicated in his research proposal Exchange program as part of an exchange program with a sister institution in India or abroad All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC DRC IRC before the leave is granted. SRC DRC IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowship during academic leave A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave. A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester as certified by SRC and approved by DRC. 24. Financial Assistance Back to index Financial assistantship scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following: 24.1 M.Sc. Program Back to index 24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program Back to index A student having completed minimum credit requirements of an M.Sc. program at the end of the second year with a CGPA 8 OR b have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. 24.3 M.Tech. Program Back to index A regular M.Tech. student with GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. 24.4 Executive M Tech Program Back to index Students admitted in this category will not be provided any financial assistance from the Institute. 24.5 M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Program Back to index Rules and regulations governing financial assistance for dual degree students will be at par with regular Ph.D. students. 24.6 Ph.D. Program Back to index A regular Ph.D. student admitted to the Institute will be eligible for financial assistance as per the norms of IIT Jodhpur. a A candidate having B.Tech. B.S. four-year program Masters degree with GATE NET JRF NBHM or equivalent can have financial assistance as per MHRD norms or equivalent applicable for non-science departments. b The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech or equivalent post-bachelors degree c A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines. A Ph.D. student would be eligible for enhancement in the scholarship after two years provided the student has met qualifier requirement. The enhanced fellowship will commence from the date of completion of both the conditions. No arrears will be provided due to delay in completing the qualifier requirement. The Teaching Research Assistantship of a Ph.D. student shall stop from the day of submission of the Thesis. 25. Rules and Regulations For M.Tech. M.Sc. Project Back to index Allotment of students to supervisors will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor s . The supervisor and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester. Coordinator, M. Tech. Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor s . Each semester a letter grade will be awarded after examination by a committee consisting of DRC, supervisor s and two members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department maybe outside the Institute also . DRC will appoint examiners in consultation with the supervisor. The same committee may examine more than one thesis. External member can be on VC. DRC will ensure that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy. A regular full-time student must register for M.Tech Project Part-1 in the summer semester following 2 nd semester. He must obtain a satisfactory grade to continue M.Tech project part-1 in the next semester. His performance in the summer semester will be evaluated by his supervisor. 26 Rules and Regulations for Ph.D. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program Back to index 26.1 Thesis Supervisor s Back to index 26.1.1 Selection of Ph.D. Candidates The selection should be based on merit and capability of the candidate to conduct research. There should at least be a faculty member available or likely to join in the areas of interest of the candidate at the time of selection. 26.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor s Ph. D. students shall be admitted in the department and no supervisor shall be assigned at the time of selection. Allotment of students to supervisor s will be made based on the preferences of the students and supervisor s . For both Ph. D. and M. Tech. Ph. D. Dual degree supervisor s and area identification must be completed by the end of the first semester The Convener, DRC Department Research Committee Coordinator Interdisciplinary Research Program would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor s . There shall not be more than two supervisors, in general, for a student. Additional supervisor can be allowed with the approval of Chairman, Senate. A supervisor from outside the institute, before the qualifier, may be appointed on the request of student supervisor s with the recommendation of the DRC IRC and the Dean Academics and approval of the Chairman, Senate. The external supervisor will be requested to sign Intellectual Property Right IPR and Non-Disclosure Agreement NDA documents as a part of acceptance. From the financial point of view the Institute will have no obligation to the external supervisor. 26.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor Additional supervisor Whenever the supervisor proceeds on short leave for a period up to one year, the DRC IRC Interdisciplinary Research Committee shall appoint a caretaker supervisor in consultation with the supervisor and the student to take care of the administrative requirements. Whenever the supervisor proceeds on long leave for a period more than a year, then an additional supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor The supervisor going on lien or sabbatical may continue supervising students and the supervisor can opt for either an additional supervisor or a caretaker supervisor. The supervisor on his her retirement or on resignation may continue as a supervisor and will have to opt for an additional supervisor provided the student has cleared qualifier before the supervisors retirement resignation. 26.1.4 Composition of Departmental Research Committee DRC The DRC will consist of coordinators of M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree and Ph.D. programs of the department, head of the Department and Senior Professor Associate Professor proposed by the Head. The DRC will be Chaired by Professor Associate Professor nominated by Head of the Department. The Chairman of the DRC will be a member of the Academic Committee. The DRC has to be approved by Dean Academics . Ph.D. program coordinator will be the convenor of DRC and will be proposed by the head. The tenure for the DRC will be 2 years. 26.1.5 Composition of Interdisciplinary Research Committee IRC The IRC will consist of all coordinators of IDRPs and Senior Professor Associate Professor as the chairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean Academics . The chairman of IRC will be a member of AC. One of the IDRP co-ordinators would be convenor of the committee. The tenure for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean Academics . 26.2 Change of Research Supervisor Back to index Change of supervisor s , under exceptional circumstances, shall be permitted by Dean Academics on the recommendation of the DRC IRC after obtaining the consent of i the student ii the present supervisor s and iii the proposed supervisor s . If required, realignment of students research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC IRC. 26.3 Student Research Committee SRC Back to index 26.3.1 Composition of SRC The SRC will normally consist of supervisor s and three other faculty members conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the department maybe outside the Institute also . A Student Research Committee SRC for the candidate shall be proposed by the supervisor s , recommended by the DRC IRC and approved by Dean Academics . The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and the supervisor s will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean Academics . The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester. Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the DRC IRC to Dean Academics for record Chairman and supervisor s shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the thesis. The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the completion of the program. 26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting APM Back to index The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon i Annual Progress Report and ii A Poster Presentation open to all. SRC will award a Satisfactory Non-Satisfactory grade based upon i and ii . Two consecutive Non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of registration. For implementational convenience, academic calendar must indicate two days in a year for conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars. Following the groupings of students and scheduling guidelines are suggested 1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During 1st July to 30th September of the year. 2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December to 28th February of the year. The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements. Each semester Satisfactory progress or Unsatisfactory progress will be reported by the supervisor s through the SRC for record. Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee and approved by Dean academics 26.5 Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student Back to index The following four components together will constitute qualifier candidacy requirements for a Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship. 1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1 2. Cleared comprehensive examination 3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research 4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements before the beginning of the fifth semester of his her registration in the Ph. D. program and in any case not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in the Ph. D. program. Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before the beginning of the seventh semester. 26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. M.Tech-Ph.D Student The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the student and the breadth of his her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the field of research. The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination Committee of the Department IDRP. The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers. Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination. Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The course content of these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the same as courses offered by the department; it must be designed to test the breadth of the knowledge in that area. The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement for a particular student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments. The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student within two weeks of SRC formation. All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days. A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he she has completed the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement. If the performance of the Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the first attempt is not satisfactory, he she will be given one more opportunity to appear within six months of the first attempt. For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in all papers. Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students: Ph.D. : within 3 semesters Direct Ph.D. and MTech PhD Dual Degree: within 5 semesters 26.5.2 State of Art Seminar SOTA Every Ph.D. student is required to give a general seminar in the Department covering the State of Art of the area of research. The presentation must also include patent landscaping of the area. The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal. 26.5.3 Research Proposal Research proposal report presentation will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion of SOTA. The research proposal must include representative research work equivalent to research work worth 16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance of the candidate. 26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree Back to index A student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D. degree after he she has completed the qualifier requirements for the degree. Only such students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis. 26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program Back to index M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualifier requirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years can also convert into part-time external Ph.D. student and exit with M.Tech degree if all conditions for part-time external conversion are satisfied. The renewal of their registration for every semester however, will be considered only if SRC finds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends the continuance of registration. 26.8 Cancellation of Registration Back to index The registration of a student whose progress is not found to be satisfactory by the SRC or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation. The registration of a student who has not submitted his her thesis before the end of the maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation. 26.9 Synopsis Back to index Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis. Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsis report Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within six months of the open seminar date. If required, an extension of three months may be permitted by Dean Academics on the recommendation of SRC. If the synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specified period, the student will be asked to present the synopsis again. On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in 4.6.1, the comprehensive examination, the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis, the student shall submit the requisite copies of the synopsis of his her research work in the required format through the supervisor s and HoD to the Academic Section for consideration of the SRC. The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication in a refereed journal refereed conference SRC members are required to certify the quality of journals conference . 26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation Back to index The supervisor s shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting of at least four Faculty Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in which the student undertook research. For selecting an examiner, the following guidelines should be followed The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience; No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute. Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners. The Chairman, Senate, shall select minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of which at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of these examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. In addition, SRC and Supervisor s shall be the examiners of the Thesis. The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor s and the external examiner. One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense. The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months from the date of receipt of the Thesis. If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean Academics shall request the Supervisor s to hold the Thesis Defense by the student. If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean Academics shall report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration. The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under special circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be awarded by the Institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program. If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis, the student shall resubmit the Thesis after the revision within a prescribed time period of 6 months in consultation with the Supervisor s . When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the Thesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the suggestions corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis. The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor s , the Examiner from within India and other Faculty Members quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor s and an external examiner , who participated in the Comprehensive Examination of the student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their recommendation, Dean Academics shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award of Ph.D. degree to the student. 27. Graduation Requirements Back to index A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below. 27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement Back to index Table 27.1 Minimum residential requirement S.No. Program Qualifications at the time of joining the Program Minimum Duration in semesters of Residence 1.0 M.Sc. All qualifying degrees 4. .0 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree All qualifying degrees 7. .0 M.Tech. Programs Full-time Regular Sponsored All qualifying degrees 3.0 Part-time Part-time Executive All qualifying degrees 0.0 Executive All qualifying degrees 1. .0 Ph. D. Programs Full-time Regular Engineering discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. Engineering in an Engineering discipline 2.0 M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 5.0 B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. Engineering in an Engineering discipline 5.0 Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, Humanities or Social Science discipline 2.0 Part-time All qualifying degrees 0.0 External All qualifying degrees 1. .2 Academic Back to index The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she he has earned the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09. 27.3 No Dues Clearance Back to index Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean Academics 27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action Back to index The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her him. 27.5 Award of Degrees Back to index 27.5.1 Provisional Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, can be provided with a provisional certificate by the office of Dean Academics on the approval of Chairman, Senate. 27.5.2 Degree Certificate A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, is recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors BOG for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its approval. 28. AMENDMENTS Back to index Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes at IIT-Jodhpur. . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Old Regulations Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Old Regulations The Regulations governing four sets of degree Programs offered by the Institute are: 1. Bachelor of Technology Programs 1. B.Tech. Bioengineering 2.B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering For students who joined in July 2014 and later 3. B.Tech. Electrical Engineering For students who joined before July .B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering 2. Master of Science Programs 1.M.Sc. Chemistry For all students 2. M.Sc. Mathematics 3. M.Sc. Physics 3. Master of Technology Programs 1. M.Tech. Bioscience Bioengineering 2. M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering 3. M.Tech. Electrical Engineering For students who joined in July 2014 and later 4. M.Tech. Mechanical Engineering For students who joined before July . M.Tech. Metallurgical Materials Engineering 4. Doctor of Philosophy Programs 1.Ph.D. Bioscience and Bioengineering For students who joined in July 2014 and later 2. Ph.D. Chemistry For students who joined before July . Ph.D. Humanities Social Sciences 4.Ph.D. Mathematics 5. Ph.D. Physics 6. Ph.D. Computer Science Engineering 7. Ph.D. Electrical Engineering 8.Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering 9. Ph.D. Metallurgical Materials Engineering Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! Curriculum for Programs Before 2019 Curriculum for Programs from . Bachelor of Technology Programs 1. B.Tech. Bioengineering link will open on intranet only 2. B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering link will open on intranet only 3. B.Tech. Electrical Engineering link will open on intranet only 4. B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering link will open on intranet only 5. B.Tech. AI and Data Science link will open on intranet only 6. B.Tech. Chemical Engineering link will open on intranet only 7. B.Tech. Materials Engineering link will open on intranet only 8. B.Tech. Civil and Infrastructure Engineering link will open on intranet only Other Course Contents 1. UG First Year link will open on intranet only 2. List of Institute wide common courses and course contents from 2nd year onwards link will open on intranet only 3. Transition plan for B.Tech. 2016, 2017 and 2018 Batches link will open on intranet only Old Transition Plan link will open on intranet only 4. Minor Department Interdisciplinary Specialization for batches undergoing transition plan link will open on intranet only 5. Non Graded Institute Level Courses link will open on intranet only 6. Courses Offered by HSS link will open on intranet only 7. Courses identified as programme electives but offered by the other departments link will open on intranet only Curriculum for PG Programs 2. Master of Science Programs 1. M.Sc. Chemistry link will open on intranet only 2. M.Sc. Mathematics link will open on intranet only 3. M.Sc. Physics link will open on intranet only 4. M.Sc. Digital Humanities link will open on intranet only 3. Master of Science - Master of Technology Programs 1. Mathematics Data Science link will open on intranet only 4. Master of Technology Programs 1. M.Tech. Bioscience Bioengineering link will open on intranet only 2. M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering - updated course content for M.Tech. Computer science and Engineering and Artificial Intelligence link will open on intranet only 3. M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence - updated course content for M.Tech. Computer science and Engineering and Artificial Intelligence link will open on intranet only 4. M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems link will open on intranet only 5. M.Tech. Sensors and Internet of Things link will open on intranet only 6. M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences link will open on intranet only 7. M.Tech. Advanced Manufacturing link will open on intranet only 8. M.Tech. Thermofluids Engineering link will open on intranet only 9. M.Tech. Materials Engineering link will open on intranet only 10. M.Tech. Chemical Engineering link will open on intranet only 11. M.Tech. Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Environmental Engineering link will open on intranet only 12. M.Tech. Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Energy link will open on intranet only 13. M.Tech. Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality link will open on intranet only 14. M.Tech. Intelligent Communication Systems link will open on intranet only 15. M.Tech. - Robotics and Mobility Systems link will open on intranet only 5. Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Programs 1. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Bioscience Bioengineering link will open on intranet only 2. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Computer Science Engineering link will open on intranet only 3. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Artificial Intelligence link will open on intranet only 4. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Communication and Signal Processing link will open on intranet only 5. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Cyber Physical Systems link will open on intranet only 6. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Sensors and Internet of Things link will open on intranet only 7. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Data and Computational Sciences link will open on intranet only 8. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Metallurgical Materials Engineering link will open on intranet only 9. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Design Engineering link will open on intranet only 10. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Advanced Manufacturing link will open on intranet only 11. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Thermofluids Engineering link will open on intranet only 12. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Chemical Engineering link will open on intranet only 13. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Environmental Engineering link will open on intranet only 14. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Infrastructure Engineering with specialization in Energy link will open on intranet only 15. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Intelligent Communication Systems link will open on intranet only 6. Doctor of Philosophy Programs Core Sciences 1. Ph.D. Chemistry link will open on intranet only 2. Ph.D. Mathematics link will open on intranet only 3. Ph.D. Physics link will open on intranet only Engineering Sciences 1. Ph.D. Biosciences and Bioengineering link will open on intranet only 2. Ph.D. Computer Science Engineering 3. Ph.D. Electrical Engineering link will open on intranet only 4. Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering link will open on intranet only 5. Ph.D. Metallurgical Materials Engineering Inter-disciplinary Areas 1. Ph.D. Robotics and Mobility Systems 2. Ph.D. Science of Intelligence 3. Ph.D. Digital Humanities link will open on intranet only 4. Ph.D. IOT Applications 5. Ph.D. Quantum Information and Computation link will open on intranet only 6. Ph.D. Smart Healthcare link will open on intranet only 7. Ph.D. Space Technologies Humanities Social Sciences Ph.D. Humanities Social Sciences link will open on intranet only . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Curriculum for Programs Before 2019 Office of Academics Affairs IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Curriculum for Programs Before 2019 Curriculumfor Programs Before 2019 The Curriculum of the four sets of degree Programs offered by the Institute are: 1. Bachelor of Technology Programs 1. B.Tech. Bioengineering Download file 2. B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering Download file 3. B.Tech. Electrical Engineering Download file 4. B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering Download file 2. Master of Science Programs 1. M.Sc. Chemistry Download file 2. M.Sc. Mathematics Download file 3. M.Sc. Physics Download file 3. Master of Technology Programs 1. M.Tech. Bioscience Bioengineering Download file 2. M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering Download file 3. M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence Download file 4. M.Tech. Metallurgical Materials Engineering Download file 4. Doctor of Philosophy Programs Core Sciences 1. Ph.D. Chemistry Download file 2. Ph.D. Mathematics Download file 3. Ph.D. Physics Download file Engineering Sciences 1. Ph.D. Bioscience and Bioengineering Download file 2. Ph.D. Electrical Engineering Download file 3. Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering Download file 4. Ph.D. Metallurgical Materials Engineering Download file Humanities Social Sciences Ph.D. Humanities Social Sciences Download file Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :36 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , : , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , GPU , , OS , 5G 5G , IoT : 850 , , 20 , - - CV, AR VR , PIO , , , , , , , - - DGX-2, , VANET AR-VR DGX2 - AI 16 NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU , - NVLink , GPU - , - NVMe , DGX2 AI , Nvidia A5000 Nvidia 1080Ti - CPU, - GPU , , , , CPU , 25 , - Eligibility Scale Of Pay Selection Procedure Apply Online . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Computer Science Engineering Computer Science and Engineering, today, plays a major role in transforming every aspect of human life - in addressing social challenges and catalyzing the ongoing wave of the industrial revolution. The department is driven by its commitment to excel in next generation technology development and research. Our mission is to strengthen industry-academia collaborations and prepare our students to contribute to multi-disciplinary projects and R D for solving problems of national interest. Vision To be among the top 10 departments in terms of research contributions, practical impact, and applications of Computer Science and Engineering in the country in the next 3 years, and internationally well known in some focused areas in the next 5 years. Some of our missions are to achieve excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subject for innovative discoveries; develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating; and develop and support the notion of computing for all across disciplines at the institute. Mission Our missions are to achieve excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subject for innovative discoveries; develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating; and develop and support the notion of computing for all across disciplines at the institute. M1 Achieving excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subjects for innovative discoveries. M2 Develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating within the institute, as well by means of international, national and regional institutes. The collaborations may be fostered by research visits, collaborative projects, joint thesis, internship guidance, research mentoring etc. M3 Develop and support the notion of computing for all across disciplines at the institute. M4 Embracing shared dialogue across disciplines and encouraging experiential learning to redefine the contours of traditional Computer Science teaching and learning. Be one of the leading departments in the country for hybrid CSE education. M5 Define and solve real-world problems in collaboration with industry, and develop industry- connect by means of research grants consultancies, and collaborative projects. Develop Start-up ecosystem in emerging areas of computing in collaboration with other departments at IIT Jodhpur. M6 Dissemination of knowledge without physical boundaries, i.e. classroom, online and other modes of teaching, to create a workforce which is ready to ethically solve technological challenges of the next generation. M7 Provide thought leadership in public policy and ethics of emerging computing technologies towards building an equitable and ethical society. News Events View all news 1 Dr. Debasis Das received the DST-NSF Project Award 2025, National Science Foundation NSF , USA, and the Department of Science and Technology DST of India. 2 Dr. Debasis Das received NSTC Research Award-2025, National Science and Technology Council NSTC , Taiwan, National Sun Yat-sen University NSYSU , Taiwan. 3 Swapnil Thatte, Paromita Banerjee, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, Bhanu Duggal, Angshuman Paul submitted an Indian patent on MFA-U-Net: U-Net with Multi-level Feature Aggregation for Scale-free Medical Image Segmentation funded by TiH iHub Drishti. Highlights View all highlights PatientVLM Meets DocVLM: Pre-Consultation Dialogue Between Vision-Language Models for Efficient Diagnosis, AAAI 2026:K Lokesh, Uday Agarwal, Abhirama Subramanyam Penamakuri, Apoorva Challa, Shreya K G Temporal Object-Aware Vision Transformer for Few-Shot Video Object Detection, AAAI 2026: Yogesh Kumar, Anand Mishra DBCoreset: A Density-based Coreset Algorithm for Computationally Efficient Chest X-ray Diagnosis, The 2026 IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging ISBI : Jayant Mahawar, Angshuman Paul Announcements View all announcements 1 Ph.D. Admission Result AY 2025-26 SEMESTER II 2 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II 3 List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for admission to the PhD program July 2025 PDF 4 Provisionally shortlisted and waitlisted candidates for M.Tech CSE AI July- Rolling Advertisement for admission to Ph.D. Program. Program Details 6 Rolling Advertisement for faculty positions. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Undergraduate Programs Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Undergraduate Programs B.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering CSE The B.Tech. program in Computer Science and Engineering CSE at IIT Jodhpur aims to equip its students with skills to undertake careers that involve identifying and engineering solutions for real-world problems, through innovating upon their core competence in computer science. The curriculum gives due importance to the foundational aspects of computer science, as well as aspires to inculcate in students the foresight and expertise to address transdisciplinary technological questions. Students can choose from a number of elective courses that strive to expand their understanding of emerging concepts and processes across domains such as Theory and Algorithms, Hardware, Systems, Network and Security, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Speech, Vision, Language, and Social Computing. The program also encourages its students to opt from a number of exclusive interdisciplinary specialization tracks, that are envisaged to provide a coherent and sophisticated understanding of underlying subject-areas, to empower them to pursue myriad career paths. Some of these specializations are: Visual Computing Socio-Digital Reality Advanced Algorithms Social and Sustainable Computing Intelligent Communication and Networking VLSI Systems The program aspires to produce a well prepared, motivated workforce who would valiantly embark upon careers in research and industry involving innovation, knowledge creation, engineering, and entrepreneurship. All students who have graduated from the department thus far are currently placed in companies of repute or are pursuing higher education in top-tier universities in the country and the rest of the world. Detailed curriculum for B.Tech. CSE Download file: 633 KB Details of courses offered by Dept. CSE Download file: 908 KB Specializations Download file: 244 KB Regulations for Undergraduate Programs Download file: 536 KB B.Tech. Artificial Intelligence and Data Science AI DS Starting 2020, IIT Jodhpur will be offering a unique undergraduate program in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, that envisions to equip students with the ability to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues, and - most importantly - identify their consequent responsibilities as engineers of effective solutions for the same. The curriculum is interdisciplinary at heart - straddling computer science, mathematics, artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science, and their applications across numerous domains. Besides Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning, Digital Image Processing, Computer Vision and Video Processing, the program will be training its students in a range of exclusive courses like: Biometrics Dependable AI Resource-constrained AI Big Data Data Engineering and Data Visualization Stream Analytics Social Network Analysis Human-Machine Interaction Augmented and Virtual Reality Speech and Natural Language Understanding Computational Neuroscience The curriculum promises to provide opportunities to its students to explore a number of transdisciplinary specialization areas including visual computing, socio-digital reality, intelligent communications and networking, language technologies, robotics, and AIOT. The program will also allow its students to venture into a one-of-a-kind Management specialization that would focus on AI and Technology, leading to an MBA BTech MBA dual degree program and scope for entrepreneurial pursuits Detailed curriculum for B.Tech. AI DS Download file: 511 KB Details of courses offered by Dept. CSE Download file: 908 KB Specializations Download file: 244 KB Regulations for Undergraduate Programs Download file: 536 KB Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Postgraduate Programs Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Postgraduate Programs M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering CSE The M. Tech program in Computer Science and Engineering CSE at IIT Jodhpur establishes a balance between traditional and emerging areas of the discipline by offering students a combined knowledge of theory and practice. The program is designed to extend the undergraduate computing skills with up-to-date and in-depth expertise in specialized areas of the computer science discipline. The curriculum is developed in consultation with experts from academia and industry to address the needs of both domains and open a wide range of possibilities for students for their future endeavors. Students are equipped with relevant concepts, algorithms, techniques, and underpinning principles while developing the ability to solve real-world problems in a number of application areas such as Computer Systems and Security, Distributed Computing, Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence, and Big Data. Detailed curriculum for M.Tech. CSE Download file: 549 KB AY 2025 onwards Detailed curriculum for M.Tech. CSE Download file: 58 KB AY 2021 Onwards Details of courses offered by Dept. CSE Download file: 908 KB Regulations for Postgraduate Programs Download file: 536 KB M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence AI The M.Tech. in Artificial Intelligence AI aims to fill the critical needs of the industry and to fill the gap in the availability of highly skilled AI scientists and engineers. The major goal of the two-year M.Tech. AI The program is to impart rigorous training in strong foundations of artificial intelligence as well as cutting-edge AI tools and techniques, and produce graduates who can reinforce the country's efforts towards developing AI technologies. Detailed curriculum for M.Tech. AI Download file: 644 KB AY 2025 Onwards Detailed curriculum for M.Tech. AI Download file: 55.6 KB AY 2021 Onwards Details of courses offered by Dept. CSE Download file: 908 KB Regulations for Postgraduate Programs Download file: 536 KB Dual Master's with University of Albany, SUNY UA The Dual Mater's Program in CSE and Cybersecurity in collaboration of University at Albany, SUNY UAlbany . This is a unique program that leverages the strengths of the two institutions, IIT Jodhpur in CSE and UAlbany in Cybersecurity. The field of Cybersecurity is becoming more critical as we become more technology dependent and there is a short supply of Cybersecurity professionals in the United States of the order of a quarter million jobs. Also, the field is growing rapidly. Students will get an MTech in CSE and an MS in Cyber Security. UAlbany is providing a 5000 dollar scholarship for our students since we are a partner institution. Additionally, this program is STEM certified in the United States which means that students will automatically get a 3-year work visa at the end of their one year at UAlbany. Also, currently there are over a quarter million open jobs in the Cybersecurity. The previous set of students that have gone from IIT Jodhpur SME , we have had a 100 placement in the industry or at education institutions for doctoral programs with full assistantships. Almost all students have also been able to take assistantships at UAlbany making their education even more affordable. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree CSE M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree AI IIT Jodhpur has been offering MTech-PhD dual-degree programs since July 2019. These programs have been designed particularly for students with an inclination for research. Students who have completed their B.Tech. are eligible to join this program. Students complete their M.Tech. course work and then start their research, and earn both M.Tech. and Ph.D. degrees - at the end of the program. There are two distinct aspects of these programs: first, it provides an avenue for students to earn both degrees in a far lesser duration compared to if these were done individually, and second, students are awarded a fellowship equivalent to that of a JRF from the date of their joining. Academically, these programs facilitate students to decide upon their area of research by the end of the first semester. After a phase of rigorous coursework in the first two years, they start working towards the academic requirements of a PhD that includes a comprehensive exam, state-of-the-art seminar, publications in top conferences and journals, and a thesis. The students can also work on industry projects and collaborate with faculty from other academic research bodies. This program offers the benefit of PhD level scholarship from the first year itself and the integrated courses and research helps in reducing the overall time of completing MTech and PhD. The Department of CSE is currently offering two such programs: MTech-PhD Dual-degree in CSE and MTech-PhD Dual-degree in AI, and is continuously looking for motivated and capable students to conduct advanced research in all areas of Computer Science and AI please visit the Research page for more details . The coursework requirements of these programs are similar to the corresponding MTech programs, and other support travel support, institute mobility grant, fellowship schemes in addition to that from the Ministry of Education, etc. and research related academic requirements are similar to the PhD program. Revised curriculum for Dual Degree Download file: 441 KB AY 2022 Onwards Detailed curriculum for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree CSE Download file: 114 KB Detailed curriculum for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree AI Download file: 119 KB Detailed curriculum for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree CSE Download file: 58 KB AY 2021 Onwards Detailed curriculum for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree AI Download file: 55.6 KB AY 2021 Onwards Details of courses offered by Dept. CSE Download file: 908 KB Regulations for Postgraduate Programs Download file: 536 KB Executive M.Tech. AI for working professionals From January 2020, the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Jodhpur has started the Executive M.Tech. in AI program for working professionals. This program runs as a combination of synchronous and asynchronous teaching. Online lectures are offered on evenings or weekends for the convenience of working professionals. The minimum duration of this mode of M.Tech. program is 3 years, and the credit requirement is the same as the regular M.Tech in AI program at IIT Jodhpur i.e. 62 credits . The major goal of this program is to train and enhance the skills of working professionals with strong foundations of Artificial Intelligence AI and state-of-the-art AI tools and techniques, and make them more industry-competent. For More Details- Visit the webpage Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Programs for Working Professionals Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Programs for Working Professionals Introduction Artificial Intelligence AI is a branch of computer science that aims to create machines to act with higher levels of intelligence and emulate the human capabilities of sense, comprehend and act. The core problems of artificial intelligence include programming computers for certain traits such as Knowledge, Reasoning, Problem-solving, Perception, Learning and Planning. AI technology development and applications are evolving rapidly with major implications for economies and societies. As the demand for such applications increases, there is also an increasing need for building the future workforce for AI. From January 2020, the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Jodhpur has started the Executive M.Tech. in AI program for working professionals. From 2022, this program transcends to its stackable avatar Certificate, Diploma, M.Tech AI - in line with the New Education Policy 2020 for working professionals. This program runs as a combination of synchronous and asynchronous teaching. Online lectures are offered on evenings or weekends for the convenience of working professionals. The minimum duration of this mode of M.Tech. program is 3 years, and the credit requirement is the same as the regular M.Tech in AI program at IIT Jodhpur i.e. 62 credits . The major goal of this program is to train and enhance the skills of working professionals with strong foundations of Artificial Intelligence AI and state-of-the-art AI tools and techniques, and make them more industry-competent. For developing the AI ecosystem, this program will be executed in synergy with other M.Tech programs running in IIT Jodhpur, such as Sensors IoT, Cyber-Physical Systems, and Advanced Manufacturing and Design. Objectives This Executive M. Tech in AI program will offer students with deep knowledge of both fundamental AI technologies, as well as application-oriented AI. A student completing this program will be capable to undertake careers in industry as well as academia. He She will have the option to explore a variety of domains including Manufacturing, Fintech, Healthcare, Agriculture Food Processing, Education, Retail Customer Engagement, Human and Robot interaction intelligent automation, Smart City, Aid for Differently Abled Accessibility Technology. Features of the Program An initiative to cater to the stackable program ideology of the NEP2020 for working professionals Easy stackable option: opportunities to exit or add-on course to graduate to next stage. Classes are conducted on the weekends or in the evening of the weekdays in online mode and students attend in a synchronous audio-visual mode. The credit requirement per semester is flexible. Students can register for as many courses as they want satisfying the minimum and maximum credit requirements every semester Program elective and open elective courses may be chosen from a wide variety of courses offered across the departments and schools including Computer Science Engineering, Electrical Engineering, School of AIDE, Mathematics, Mechanical Engineering Industry oriented courses such as ML-Ops and DL-Ops Students can interact and ask questions during the lectures. Recorded lectures and teaching materials are made available online. Course management and discussions will be enabled via widely-used tools such as Google Classroom, Piazza, and Moodle. There are mandatory two contact weeks in a semester. Students attend lectures and discussion sessions with instructors, participate in offline evaluations, and experience the IIT environment in person. Contact weeks may be organized in remote locations, subject to higher demand. Students can do their M. Tech. Projects on state-of-the-art research topics across departments Students may participate in projects funded by Government funding agencies and industries. Expected Graduate Attributes After completing this programme, a student will be able to develop an ability to: Comprehend fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of the state-of-the-art AI methodologies. Design and Build real-world AI systems for complex planning, decision making and learning, solving application-specific problems, and to reason about them. Conceive, Design and Develop Intelligent multi-modal multi-sensory Man-Machine interfaces. Design, Develop and Deploy machine learning based applications using structured and unstructured data e.g., speech, text, images videos . Understand and Assess reliability, dependability and trust-worthiness of AI-based systems. Design and develop AI applications for resource constrained environments. Adhere to evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and territories. Plan and manage technical projects. Learning Outcomes Understand the fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Inference Engines, Speech, Vision, Natural Language Understanding, Robotics, and Human Computer Interaction. Unify the knowledge of human cognition, AI, Machine Learning and data engineering for designing systems. Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of state-of-the-art AI tools for real-world problem-solving. Ability to develop real-time and robust AI-based systems with specific software, hardware and data requirements. Build solutions to explore fully immersive computer-generated worlds in VR , and overlay computer graphics onto our view of our immediate environment AR along with smart, cognitive functionality. Demonstrate advanced skills to comprehend and communicate effectively. Carry out projects using intelligent cognitive solutions provided by AI algorithms to get more insights in stakeholder management, risk modeling, intelligent resource scheduling and managing project constraints with intelligent use of data models. Program Details Includes Stackable Options From 2022 onwards Course Structure for: Certificate, Diploma and Degree program-categories Certificate program requires a minimum 6 to 8 credits and 64 hours of contact hours. Diploma requires minimum 128 contact hours around 16-18 credits Certificate and Diploma as part of the stackable MTech AI program The certificate and diploma can be obtained as an exit option from MTech AI The certificate and diploma can also be registered by the student individually. If the student follows the continuation CGPA requirements, he she can stack up the credits to earn the next higher degree, finally leading to MTech AI as well. Program Name Courses Credit Requirement Certificate Course Introduction to AI and ML Minimum 1 semester Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning Optimization Total: 8 credits Diploma Course Diploma in AI and ML Minimum 3 semester Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning Optimization ML-Ops Deep Learning 2 courses from PE Total: 18 credits MTech AI As per approved program document Total: 62 credits Additional certificate and diploma options for students with Machine Learning background. Program Name Courses Credit Requirement Certificate Course Dependable ML 2 semester Dependable AI Deep Learning Advanced ML Total: 9 credits Diploma Course Dependable ML 2-3 semester Optimization DL-Ops Optimization Deep Learning Advanced ML 2 PE courses Total: 18 credits Some Core and Elective Course Options Core Courses Elective Courses ML-Ops Machine Learning Deep Learning DL-Ops Artificial Intelligence Dependable AI Algorithms for Big Data Ethics and Professional Life System Engineering and Project Management Social Network Analysis Principles of Biological Vision Advanced Artificial Intelligence Advanced Computer Vision Autonomous Systems Introduction to Blockchain Natural Language Understanding Cybersecurity GPU Programming Software and Data Engineering Introduction to Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality Advanced Biometrics Some Interdisciplinary courses offered by Departments of CSE, EE, Physics and Mathematics, and Schools of Liberal Arts and Management Entrepreneurship registered by current Exec.M.Tech AI students Psychophysics Modern Communication Networks Special Drives for Electric Vehicles Statistical Models and Regression Energy economics and policy System Engineering and Project Management Quantum Machine Learning FAQ, Course Structure Course Details FAQs of Executive M.Tech. AI Download file: 64 KB Course Structure of Executive M.Tech. AI Download file: 38 KB Details of courses offered by Dept. CSE Download file: 908 KB Contact Us: Email ID for Working Professionals programs: office cep at iitj.ac.in, Tele.- Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Doctoral Programs Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Doctoral Programs M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree CSE M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree AI IIT Jodhpur has been offering MTech-PhD dual-degree programs since July 2019. These programs have been designed particularly for students with an inclination for research. Students who have completed their B.Tech. are eligible to join this program. Students complete their M.Tech. course work and then start their research, and earn both M.Tech. and Ph.D. degrees - at the end of the program. There are two distinct aspects of these programs: first, it provides an avenue for students to earn both degrees in a far lesser duration compared to if these were done individually, and second, students are awarded a fellowship equivalent to that of a JRF from the date of their joining. Academically, these programs facilitate students to decide upon their area of research by the end of the first semester. After a phase of rigorous coursework in the first two years, they start working towards the academic requirements of a PhD that includes a comprehensive exam, state-of-the-art seminar, publications in top conferences and journals, and a thesis. The students can also work on industry projects and collaborate with faculty from other academic research bodies. This program offers the benefit of PhD level scholarship from the first year itself and the integrated courses and research helps in reducing the overall time of completing MTech and PhD. The Department of CSE is currently offering two such programs: MTech-PhD Dual-degree in CSE and MTech-PhD Dual-degree in AI, and is continuously looking for motivated and capable students to conduct advanced research in all areas of Computer Science and AI please visit the Research page for more details . The coursework requirements of these programs are similar to the corresponding MTech programs, and other support travel support, institute mobility grant, fellowship schemes in addition to that from the Ministry of Education, etc. and research related academic requirements are similar to the PhD program. Revised curriculum for Dual Degree Download file: 441 KB AY 2022 Onwards Detailed curriculum for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree CSE Download file: 114 KB Detailed curriculum for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree AI Download file: 119 KB Detailed curriculum for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree CSE Download file: 58 KB AY 2021 Onwards Detailed curriculum for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree AI Download file: 55.6 KB AY 2021 Onwards Details of courses offered by Dept. CSE Download file: 908 KB Regulations for Postgraduate Programs Download file: 536 KB Ph.D. CSE The Ph.D. program at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering CSE at IIT Jodhpur is postgraduate-research-oriented. A Ph.D. student works in an area of his her interest under the supervision of a faculty member s and also has the flexibility to have an industry expert as co-supervisor. The student has to complete the Ph.D. qualifier requirements, which involve a minimum number of credits by taking courses, a comprehensive exam, state-of-the-art seminar, and research proposal defense. The doctoral programs salient feature is the independent research work taken by scholars, leading to a thesis at the end of the program. The average duration of a PhD. program is between four to five years. The CSE department invites students with a research bent of mind to apply for admission to the Ph.D. program. The Ph.D. applicant must have high aspiration and willingness to work on socially relevant cutting-edge problems. The department expects that an aspirant has strong foundations in core Computer science subjects. The department offers admission to the Ph.D. program in categories like Full-Time, Part-Time. Ph.D. Tracks MoE Funded Ph.D. Ph.D. Funded by Exciting Projects Joint Ph.D. JPD With SUNY Buffalo UB Broad Research Areas AI ML CV, AR-VR Systems S W Theoretical Computer Science Some Specific Areas of Interest Include: Health Informatics; Social Network Analysis; Cryptography; Computational Social Choice Theory; Parameterized Randomized Algorithms; Graph Algorithms; Natural Language Understanding; Quantum Computation; VANET; Internet of Things IoT ; Blockchain; Network Security Our Research Areas and Labs Compute Facilities Coursework Industry focused research-driven courses Industry-supported labs Modern high-end GPU clusters including NVIDIA DGX A100, DPU coming State-Of-The-Art testbeds in VANET Samsung sponsored AR-VR lab Opportunity to attend courses from adjunct and visiting faculties from industries and top universities in India and abroad Research Opportunities Industry-sponsored projects Meta, IBM, TCS, DRDO, Microsoft, Accenture Projects with government agencies on real-world problems DRDO, AIIMS, PGI, Law Enforcement Close collaborations with iHub Drishti a Technology Innovation Hub focused on Computer Vision, AR VR Joint projects with IMSc, IIT Bombay, IIT Kharagpur, IIIT Guwahati, IIT Delhi, IIIT Hyderabad, IISc Bangalore, SUNY Buffalo, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Missouri University of Science and Technology, IIT Hyderabad, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev Publications at top venues Support for attending conferences Student reading groups and webinars by leading experts Alumni Our alumni are at different places in industry academia: Charles University, State University of Texas, American Express, Czech Technical University in Prague, IIT Roorkee Regulations for Doctoral Programs Download file: 536 KB Details of courses offered by the Department CSE Download file: 908 KB Apply for admission Details of comprehensive papers Download file: 146 KB Joint Ph.D. JPD with SUNY Buffalo UB Requirements Students interested in being admitted into the JPD need to be first selected into the full-time PhD program in CSE at either Institution as per selection procedures of that Institution. JPD selection procedures will be initiated within 6-12 months of the student enrolling in the PhD program. Students selected into the JPD program shall be enrolled on a full-time basis at both Institutions. Before the student matriculates to UB - as a part of the residency requirement the student must fulfill UBs minimum academic admission conditions UBs required minimum score in English for language proficiency requirements i.e. TOEFL, IELTS, PTE, CPE, CAE or DET GATE or equivalent as specified by MoE, Govt. of India from India is mandatory. While the program specifically admits exceptional students following their completion of an appropriate Bachelors degree, it will also admit those who will have completed an appropriate Masters degree. Features Dissertation will be jointly directed by faculty from both institutions Students will be awarded two separate PhD degrees, one from each institution Students will need to spend approximately equal time at each institution When in residence at UB, scholarship will cover tuition costs and a living allowance stipend When in residence at IITJ, scholarship will be at par with PhD students at IITJ When enrolled as a full-time PhD student at UB, all broad-based fees will be waived off. Covered fees include comprehensive fee, academic excellence and success fee, student activity fee, and international student fee wherever applicable Students will have access to funding for research costs from the laboratory where research is being conducted Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Research Area Labs Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Research Area Labs Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Vision and AR VR Systems Software Theoretical Computer Science Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Projects Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Projects Title Investigators Funding Agency Demand-Aware Rooftop Solar Mapping and Installation Optimization with Limited Satellite Data and Model Debiasing Pratik Mazumder ANRF-ARG A compact non-invasive device for monitoring neonatal jaundice in pre-during and post-treatment conditions Dip Sankar Banerjee TIH-IITB Developing a network digital twin of a self-optimized virtualized network for 5G and beyond Sidharth Sharma ANRF-SRG Fast and Accurate LiDAR Point Cloud Forecasting for Autonomous Navigation Tasks Avinash Sharma Qualcomm Technologies Inc. USA Exploration of Parameterized Approximation Algorithms for Constrained Clustering and Covering Tanmay Nitin Inamdar ANRF-PMECRG Towards Secure and Resilient Collaborative Autonomous Driving CoAD Debasis Das DST-NSF Enhancing Hardware Security and Throughput in Vision Tasks Palash Das ANRF-IRG Development of Automated Software Platform for InSolare Process Optimization Using Image Processing and Machine Learning Debasis Das InSolare Energy Ltd Open Access Interactive Storytelling Project on the Manasamangal Kavya Romi Banerjee JPN National Centre of Excellence in the Humanities, IIT Indore Sustainable and Robust Near-Memory Accelerator for Vision Transformer based Models Palash Das SERB-SRG Design and development of few-shot multi-class recognition model over data suffering from label corruption in a semi-supervised setting Pratik Mazumder SERB-SRG Complexity of Manipulative Attacks on Resource Allocation Pallavi Jain DST-DAAD Automated Counting of Pipes from Camera Images Angshuman Paul Consultancy Project Self-supervised learning of dynamic clothed avatars Avinash Sharma Google US Research Award Development and Maintenance of Project Management Information System Sumit Kalra CWDB Development of Bias Mitigation Approaches for Fair Deep Learning Pratik Mazumder DST Realtime Computer Vision and Sensing Deepak Mishra TIH iHub Drishti Data Annotation and Marketplace Suman Kundu TIH iHub Drishti Analogy Based Visual Relationship Interpretation from Cross-Task Videos and Standard Operating Procedures Anand Mishra Accenture Computationally Lightweight Convolutional Neural Network for Generalizable Chest X-ray Diagnosis Angshuman Paul SERB-SRG Detecting Behavioral Health Disorders of Older Adults using Self- supervised Learning and Casual Reasoning Suchetana Chakraborty IDEAS-TIH ISI Kolkata Swiggy Face Recognition Mayank Vatsa Bundl Technologies Pvt Ltd OCR's an Application in Indian Languages Anand Mishra MeitY, Govt. of India ConSenseHAR: Decentralized collaborative context sensing towards pervasive Human Activity Recognition Suchetana Chakraborty SERB AI-driven Robot-assisted Cardiac Ultrasound System to Acquire Clinically Useful Standard Echocardiographic Views Deepak Mishra SERB Large-scale Multi-label Learning with Limited Compute Resources Yashaswi Verma SERB TrustMe: Explainable Adversarial Attack Detection and Mitigation for Object Recognition Algorithms Richa Singh iHub-Drishti Inventorization of the wildlife towards a sustainable campus. Suchetana Chakraborty CETSD Campus Sustainability Program, JCKIC Non-invasive Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease using miRNA and Coronary Imaging. Angshuman Paul iHub Drishti FIST Infrastructure Support Richa Singh DST-FIST GAMING OF CULTURAL HERITAGE SITES OF ASI Santanu Chaudhury ASI Sentinel-Bias Detection and Mitigation in Face Analysis Richa Singh Facebook Algorithms for Facial Recognition System Under Disguise Mayank Vatsa DRDO Information Access from Document Images of Indian Languages Gaurav Harit Co-PI MHRD Meity OCRs and Applications in Indian Languages Anand Mishra MEITY M atching A uction C ontract : Parameterized Algorithms for Economics and Computation Pallavi Jain IIT Jodhpur , Sushmita Gupta IMSc SERB-SUPRA Multimodal Query-Guided Natural Scene Retrieval Anand Mishra SERB Forecasting COVID-19 spatio-temporal disease spread patterns and establishing predictive factors through the analysis of large data inconclusive repeat tests and associated testing data Dip Sankar Banerjee Co-PI ICMR Demonstration Centre for Smart Graded-Water Supply Grid. Suchetana Chakraborty Co-PI JCKIC Management of TBIOM and Newsletter Mayank Vatsa IEEE Biometrics Council Mitigation Bias in face recognition for vast regional diversity in India Richa Singh Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd Software as a service for OCR system for Odia Documents Images Santanu Chaudhury Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India MEity Digital Representation Generation for Efficient Retrieval of Bangla Document Images in Digital Libraries Santanu Chaudhury IIT K, Ministry of Human Resource Development MHRD Quantum Cryptanalysis Somitra Sanadhya SERB - MATRICS Lightweight Anonymous Authentication and Communication Protocol for Internet of Vehicles Debasis Das Global Innovation Technology Alliance GITA , Govt. of India and Ministry of Science and Technology MOST , Taipei, Taiwan A Wellness Device for Real-time Non-contact Blood Oxygen Saturation Measurements Deepak Mishra, Amandeep Kaur Ministry of MSME Human perception driven on-chip compression for power efficient CMOS image sensors Amandeep Kaur, Deepak Mishra Ministry of MSME Energy Efficient Communication and Data Flow in Smart City using CRN based IoT Framework Debasis Das Department of Science Technology DST Indian Heritage in Digital Space of Interdisciplinary cyber physical Systems Santanu Chaudhury Department of Science Technology DST Predictive Maintenance and Quality Control in industries under Industry 4.0 Sumit Kalra Santanu Chaudhury, Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay Science and Engineering Research Board SERB Understanding Semantic Association Between Visual and Textual Data: What lies ahead Yashashwi Verma Department of Science Technology DST Text and Image Semantic Graphic Gaurav Harit Ministry of Human Resource Development MHRD Detection and Prevention of Forged Obscene Images Videos in the Social Networks using Machine Learning - A Social Media Engine for Discovering Doctoring in Obscene Multimedia Mayank Vatsa Richa Singh Ministry of Home Affairs MHA Development of An AI platform for Human Health Santanu Chaudhury Sushmita Jha, Sushmita Paul, Sumit Kalra, Kaushal A Desai Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India MEity Development of Application oriented AI Systems Deepak Mishra Amandeep Kaur Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India MEity Mitigating Adversarial Perturbations in Deep Learning - SwaranaJayanti Fellowship Mayank Vatsa Department of Science Technology DST Smart Health Solutions for Rapid Mass Diagnosis for COVID-19 Sumit Kalra Rajendra Nagar, Anil Kumar Tiwari Ampersand Group Knowledge Discovery from Images containing Text and its application to Audio-Visual Dialogue Anand Mishra Accenture Design and Development of Indigenous On-board Autopilot and Vision-based Navigation Systems for Autonomous Flight of Hover Capable Rotary-wing Vehicles Suril V. Shah Deepak Fulwani, Arpit Khandelwal, Kaushal A Desai, Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Comandur Venkatesan Science and Engineering Research Board SERB Detecting Spoofing and Digital Attacks on Face Images Richa Singh Mayank Vatsa Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India MEity AI-driven Diagnosis of COVID-19 using X-ray Images Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa, Santanu Chaudhury RAKSHAK project, Department of Science Technology DST AI Driven Estimation of COVID-19 Prognosis using Multimodal Data Deepak Mishra, Rajendra Nagar RAKSHAK project, Department of Science Technology DST Social Distance Alert and Monitoring System Using Smartphone, IOT and AI Suman Kundu, Sumit Kalra, Deepak Mishra, Amandeep Kaur RAKSHAK project, Department of Science Technology DST Non-invasive estimation of core body temperature, heart-rate and blood-oxygen saturation level to classify healthy and non-healthy individuals Romi Banerjee, Debarati Bhunia Chakraborty, Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa RAKSHAK project, Department of Science Technology DST Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Sponsors Collaborators Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Sponsors Collaborators The department is committed towards improving the institutes outreach through all phases of technology development; starting from conceptualization down to commercialization, and thereby striving towards creation of knowledge in specialized domains. The Departments mission is to develop strong and sustainable partnerships with research laboratories, academic institutions, industry, and entrepreneurs in order to meet aspirations of the faculty student communities. The department is looking forward to working on problems that throw up intellectual challenges, and demand practical and impactful applications and solutions. Besides this, technology development initiatives and exploration of an idea, related to process and design improvement, are also of considerable interest. The department seeks partnerships that recognise and capitalize on relative strengths of academia and the industry. To achieve these goals the department is focusing on: Development of strong industry collaborations in research, and specialized human resource development. Identifying and protecting intellectual property. Development and and nurturing of international linkages for research and development. Industry Collaborations Academic Collaborations Corporate Relations Faculty Research Area Collaborating Industry Anand Mishra Multimodal KG Vision and Language Visual Commonsense Reasoning Vision and Language Sketch-guided Object Localization Multimodal Learning Microsoft Accenture Recently Siemens Past Debasis Das Urban Anomaly Prediction Autonomous Vehicular System Cyber Security IoT Vizara Tech. Samsung Kritikal Solutions IBM Dip Sankar Banerjee Intel Johari Digital HPC, Algorithms for biological data Medical Technologies Mayank Vatsa Vehant Technologies Aethrone Aerospace Whizhack Technologies Pvt. Ltd. TCS DigitID Facebook Verisk Swiggy NVIDIA Mahajan Imaging TeleRadiology Solutions Richa Singh Trustable AI, Bias Trustable AI, Bias Biometrics, Presentation Attack Detection, Face Recognition Continual Learning Medical Image Analysis Medical Image Analysis Facebook Verisk Swiggy NVIDIA Mahajan Imaging TeleRadiology Solutions Sumit Kalra Software Engineering Smart Healthcare IMPRINT II Project - Scalable IoT Monitoring System NPBridge Novealthy Innovations Uniconverge Technologies Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Compute Resources Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Compute Resources The department's compute resources include a number of powerful servers and workstations, designed to handle a wide variety of computational tasks including complex data analysis, machine learning, and high-performance computing. With their advanced hardware and capabilities, these resources provide researchers and students to the department with reliable and efficient computing power, enabling them to tackle complex problems and push the boundaries of their fields. DGX-2 Server: NVIDIA designed the DGX-2 Server as a high-performance computing system for deep learning applications. It features 16 interconnected GPUs that provide high-speed data throughput for massive machine learning and artificial intelligence operations. The DGX-2 is also endowed with NVIDIA's Tensor Cores, which accelerate matrix operations commonly employed in deep learning tasks. One DGX-2 machine with 16 Volta 100 GPUs and 1.5 terabytes of RAM is available in the CSE lab. It comes equipped with an additional 50 terabytes of storage that is all flash-based. DPU-GPU HPC: This architecture combines DPUs and GPUs in order to accelerate high-performance computing tasks such as deep learning, scientific simulations, and data analytics. DPUs are specialized processors designed for data movement and security tasks, whereas GPUs are designed for computationally intensive tasks like matrix operations. DPU-GPU HPC systems can accomplish high throughput and low latency by combining the two, making them suitable for a variety of applications that require large-scale data processing and analysis. The department will have this system shortly. Each system will have 128 GB of RAM and 2 Nvidia A30 GPUs. Other GPU Systems: The department has 16 Nvidia 1080Ti GPU and 1 Nvidia A5000 GPU cards for the department users. NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1080 Ti is a graphics card that is often used in deep learning applications due to its powerful CUDA cores and high memory bandwidth. It has 3584 CUDA cores and 11 GB GDDR5X memory with a memory bandwidth of 484 GB s. NVIDIA A5000 is based on the latest NVIDIA Ampere architecture and features 8,192 CUDA cores, 256 Tensor Cores, 64 RT Cores, 24GB GDDR6 with error-correction code ECC and a 384-bit memory interface. General purpose servers: The department has several servers that are used for various purposes, including web hosting, database management, and file storage. These servers are equipped with powerful CPUs and storage, making them suitable for handling large amounts of data and serving multiple users simultaneously. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Achievements Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Faculty Achievements Dr. Debasis Das received the DST-NSF Project Award 2025, National Science Foundation NSF , USA, and the Department of Science and Technology DST of India. Dr. Debasis Das received NSTC Research Award-2025, National Science and Technology Council NSTC , Taiwan, National Sun Yat-sen University NSYSU , Taiwan. Dr. Debasis Das, Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, on receiving the Young Researcher Award Engineering for the Institute Award for Research Excellence-2024. Richa Singh elected INAE Fellow, 2024. Mayank Vatsa awarded Shakti Mentor Award 2024 by the Google News Initiative. Prof. Somitra Sanidhya is selected Fellow of the C3i Hub at IIT Kanpur for 2024-25. Richa Singh and Mayank Vatsa receive Nasscom AI Gamechangers 2023-24 Awards for Research on face recognition deepfakes. The paper Shared-Memory Parallel Algorithms for Community Detection in Dynamic Graphs by Shubhajit Sahu, Kishore Kothapalli, and Dip Sankar Banerjee received Outstanding Paper Award at the 26th Workshop in APDCM2024 held in conjunction with 38th IEEE Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium IPDPS 2024. Dr. Romi Banerjee selected Fellow - Royal Society of Arts. Prof. Mayank Vatsa receives the IEEE Biometrics Council Meritorious Service Award 2023 ! Dr. Pallavi Jain has received the DST-DAAD 2023 grant for the project on Complexity of Manipulative Attacks on Resource Allocation . Anand Mishra received the Microsoft Academic Partnership Grant MAPG 2023. Anand Mishra has been recognized as one of the Outstanding Reviewers at CVPR 2023. Anand Mishra served as a session chair and a workshop chair at ICFHR 2022. The paper Preserving Consistency for Liquid Knapsack Voting by Pallavi Jain, Krzysztof Sornat, and Nimrod Talmon won Best Paper Runner-Up Award at EUMAS 2022. Dr. Lipika Dey Visiting Faculty is elected Fellow of the Asia-Pacific Artificial Intelligence Association. Mayank Vatsa honoured with IAPR Fellowship. Mayank Vatsa is elected Fellow of the Asia-Pacific Artificial Intelligence Association. Richa Singh is elected Fellow of the Asia-Pacific Artificial Intelligence Association. Anand Mishra is selected for Outstanding Reviewer Award at ICCV 2021. S. Kaman and R. Banerjee selected as Fellows: Diverse Intelligences Summer Institute, 2021. Dr. A. Mishra, Abhirama P., P. Revanth, K. Tawatia receive Microsoft Academic Partnership Grant MAPG , 2021, for project on Inference and Reasoning over Web-Scale Multimodal Knowledge Graph . Dr. Debasis Das receives grant from Global Innovation Technology Alliance GITA , Govt. of India and Ministry of Science and Technology MOST , Taipei, Taiwan for project on Lightweight Anonymous Authentication and Communication Protocol for Internet of Vehicles . Dr. Deepak Mishra and Dr. Amandeep Kaur receive grant from Ministry of MSME for project on A Wellness Device for Real-time Non-contact Blood Oxygen Saturation Measurements . Dr. Amandeep Kaur and Dr. Deepak Mishra receive grant from Ministry of MSME for project on Human perception driven on-chip compression for power efficient CMOS image sensors News Archive Deepak Mishra and team receive RAKSHAK grant for project on AI Driven Estimation of COVID-19 Prognosis using Multimodal Data. Suman Kundu and team receive RAKSHAK grant for project on SOCIAL DISTANCE ALERT AND MONITORING SYSTEM USING SMARTPHONE, IOT AND AI . Romi Banerjee and team receive RAKSHAK grant for project on Non-invasive estimation of core body temperature, heart-rate and blood-oxygen saturation level to classify healthy and non-healthy individuals. Richa Singh and Mayank Vatsa receive grant from Facebook for project on Mitigating Bias in Face Recognition For Vast Regional Diversity in India. Richa Singh and Mayank Vatsa receive grant from Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for project on Detecting Spoofing and Digital Attacks for Face Recognition. Richa Singh and team receive RAKSHAK grant for project on AI-driven Diagnosis of COVID-19 using X-ray Images. Richa Singh and Mayank Vatsa receive grant from Facebook for project on Mitigating Bias in Face Recognition For Vast Regional Diversity in India. Panel Discussion on Higher Studies as a Career Strategy 31 October 2020. Anand Mishra honoured with the IIT-Jodhpur Teaching Excellence Award 2020. Anand Mishra receives research grant from Accenture labs. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Student Achievements Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Student Achievements PhD student Yogesh Kumar has been recognized as one of the Outstanding Reviewers for the British Machine Vision Conference BMVC 2024. Team NeuralNinjas Alli Khadga Jyoth, Kushal Agrawal, Nachiketa Purohit, Ritu Singh winners of the 'Amazon ML' Challenge 2024. Ph.D. Students Chiranjeev and Garvit awarded PMRF 2023. Jayant Vyas Ph.D. student selected as research intern April - October Accenture Labs. Jayant Vyas selected for student travel award for IEEE VTC 2023 Conference. PhD Student Abhirama P. has been awarded the Microsoft Research Travel Grant to present his work at Main Track of IJCAI 2023 at Macao. Mr. Ankur Nahar Ph.D Student , working under the guidance of Dr. Debasis Das, received a travel grant for ACM ICDCN 2023 for participating in the conference at IIT Kharagpur. Mr. Jayant Vyas Ph.D. Student , working under the guidance of Dr. Debasis Das and Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, received CODS - COMAD 2023 Diversity and Inclusion Track Scholarship. This Scholarship includes travel, accommodation, and a registration grant to attend CODS - COMAD 2023 at IIT Bombay. Mr. Ankur Nahar Ph.D. Student , working under the guidance of Dr. Debasis Das, received ACM India Anveshan Setu Fellowship 2023 for participating in the conference. Ms. Shruti Sureshan M. Tech CSE Student , working under the guidance of Dr. Debasis Das, received Student Travel Grant Registration fees, Travel, and Accommodation for attending CODS-COMAD 2023 at IIT Bombay. Presented Poster titled Few-Shot Learning based Anomaly Detection in Security Applications at CODS-COMAD 2023, IIT Bombay. Mr. Jayant Vyas Ph.D. Student , working under the guidance of Dr. Debasis Das and Prof. Santanu Chaudhury received Best Poster Award 2023 in Industry Day at IIT Jodhpur. Km. Bhavna Ph.D. Student under Dr. R. Banerjee and Dr. D. Roy won the Best Poster award in NAiBS 2023. Prajwal Gatti Research Assistant under Dr. Anand Mishra presented his paper VisTOT at EMNLP 2022. Nakul Sharma 3rd year B.Tech. AI presented his paper at ICVGIP 2022. Swapnil Mane Ph.D. student under Dr. Suman Kundu awarded PMRF 2022. Abhirama Subramanyam Ph.D. student under Dr. Anand Mishra and Kartik Thakral Ph.D. student under Dr. Mayank Vatsa Dr. Richa Singh awarded PMRF 2021. Mr. Ankur Nahar, working under the guidance of Dr. Debasis Das, received the USENIX Annual Technical Conference ATC 2021 Student Grant for participating in the USENIX Annual Technical Conference ATC . Mr. Lokendra Vishwakarma, Mr. Jayant Vyas and Mr. Ankur Nahar working under the guidance of Dr. Debasis Das, received the ACM SIGMATRICS 2021 Student Grant for participating in the ACM SIGMATRICS 2021 Conference. Dr. A. Mishra, Abhirama P., P. Revanth, K. Tawatia receive Microsoft Academic Partnership Grant MAPG , 2021, for project on Inference and Reasoning over Web-Scale Multimodal Knowledge Graph . Students Bharat Biradar and Dhruv Patel get selected in the Google Summer of Code. Congratulations to them! News Archive. News Archive Ankur Nahar, PhD Student under Dr. Debasis Das, receives the ACM India Travel Award for presenting his research at IFIP Networking 2020, Paris, France. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Outstanding Student Projects Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Outstanding Student Projects M.Tech Graduate Year: 2022 Name Project Report Title Project Report Anurag Saraswat An Approach to Address the Generalizability Challenge in Collaborative Deep Learning Download Baddepudi Venkata Naga Sri Sai Vineetha Adversarial Attack Estimation and Mitigation in Semantic Segmentation Download Pashikanti Rohith Parjanya FPPR: Fast Pessimistic dynamic PageRank to Update PageRank in Evolving Directed Graphs on Network Changes Download Srigowri M V Hateful Meme Detection Download Vinit Ramesh Gore Estimating Diffusion Degree for Influence Maximization on graph streams Download Debalina Saha Explainability Inspired Learning: Making Deep Learning Models Robust Against Occlusions Download Nishit Bhardwaj Hypergraph Based Optimal Route Identification with Driver Behavior Prediction as Beyond the Root Solution Download Shristy Gupta Blockchain Optimization Techniques and its Application in Fintech Download Sonali A Study of Strike-Through Text Identification from Handwritten Answer Sheets Download Yash Kumar Singhal Computational Model of Time Perception Download Graduate Year: 2021 Name Project Report Title Project Report Anurag Jain Image Annotation using Labels and Captions Download Arpit Jain Non Invasive estimation of Heart Rate and Blood oxygen level to classify an individual as Healthy or Non-Healthy Download Madugunda Jeevan Kumar Pipelined-PBFT Protocol for Banking Transaction Processing Download Meenakshi Sharma Windmill System Failure Prediction using Image Processing Download Muskan Dosi Crowd Counting and Density Estimation Download Nagendra Singh Federated learning based predictive maintenance of vehicle Download Prashant Kumar Choudhary Fraudulent account recognition using supervised learning in Ethereum Download Shiksha Mishra Unravelling the Masked Faces Download Suman Karan Cyberbully: Aggressive Tweets, Bully and Bully Target Identification from Multilingual Indian Tweets Download Tejas Sudam Gaikwad Curiosity-driven Intuitive Physics Learning Download Vaibhavi Gupta An Approach to Develop Interactive Comics through Visual Computing Download Vikanksh Nath Some Aspects of Anomaly Detection under Industry 4.0 using Deep Learning Download Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Placements Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Placements 2023 Student Placements 2022 Student Placements 2021 Student Placements Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Alumni Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Alumni Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Teams Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Teams Communication Team Prabhala Sandhya Gayatri M.Tech-2021 Tejaswee A M.Tech-2021 Abhijit S Iyer M.Tech-2021 Hima Varshitha B.Tech-2021 Naman Goyal B.Tech-2021 P Sai Akhil B.Tech-2021 Shubh Goyal B.Tech-2021 Ronak Singhvi B.Tech-2019 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

PhD Students Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! PhD Students Current Students Name Eduction Supervisor Research Area Aarju Dixit M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Rajiv Gandhi Praudyogiki VIshwavidhyalya, Bhopal, 2018 Debasis Das Internet of Things , Blockchain Aashish Bohra M.E. Computer Science Engineering : MBM Engineering College, Jodhpur, 2019 Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay Application of AR VR Abhirama Subramanyam B.Tech. Computer Engineering : Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Kancheepuram, 2018 Anand Mishra Language Guided Visual Understanding Abhishek Bhandari M.Tech. Information Technology : University of Hyderabad, 2019 Gaurav Harit Abhishek Bhandari Document Image Analysis Aditya Raturi M.Tech. Communication Theory : IIT, Madras, 2007 Somitra K. Sanadhya Cyber Security Aiman Farooq M.Tech. Communication and Information Technology : NIT Srinagar, 2019 Santanu Chaudhury , Deepak Mishra Machine Learning, Medical Image Analysis Akanksha Dwivedi M.Tech. Mechatronics : CAS, Lucknow, 2022 Dip Sankar Banerjee High Performance Computer, Data Analytics Akhil Bhatia M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : IIT ISM , Dhanbad, 2020 Suchetana Chakraborty Distributed Systems, Cloud Computing Akkshita Trivedi M.Tech. Information and Communication : University of Rajasthan, 2018 Santanu Chaudhury Document Image Analysis Akshansh Yadav B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow, 2023 Palas Das ML Accelerators Amresh Singh M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering : USIT, GGS Indraprastha University Delhi, 2013 Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay Visual Reasoning, Serious Game Studies Ananya Mondal M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : NIT, Durgapur, 2020 Suchetana Chakraborty IoT and Wireless Networks Anggy Eka Pratiwi M.E. Information Technology : Gujarat Technological University, 2018 Suman Kundu Network Science, Social Network Analysis Ankur Nahar M.E. Computer Science and Engineering : IPS Academy, Indore RGPV, Bhopal, 2014 Debasis Das Routing in Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks Anubhooti Jain B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Indraprastha University, Delhi, 2019 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Computer vision Machine Learning Arka Ujjal Dey M.Tech. Pattern Recognition and Image Processing : Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, 2015 Gaurav Harit Machine Learning Arsh Waiker B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Shri G.S Institute of Technology and Science, Indore, 2022 Somitra Sanadhya Quantum Computation Asha Rani B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Govt. Mahila Engineering College, Ajmer, 2018 Yashaswi Verma Autism Diagnosis Using Multi Modal Data Avadhut Eknath Kabadi B.E Computer Engineering : RSCOE, Pune University, 2022 Angshuman Paul Deep-learning, Computer Vision Azad Singh M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, 2016 Deepak Mishra Machine Learning, Medical Image Analysis Bhumika M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering : Centre for Development of Advance Computing, Noida, U.P., 2019 Debasis Das Urban Informatics Bikash Dutta B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : IEC College of Engineering and Technology, 2021 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Deep Learning Chiranjeev B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Bharati Vidyapeeth's College of Engineering, New Delhi, 2021 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Deep Learning, Computer Vision Deepika Kamboj M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : NIT, Jalandhar, 2015 Gaurav Harit Machine Learning Computer Vision Dipti Trivedi M.Tech. Wireless Communication and Networks : Gautam Buddha University Greater Noida, 2013 Venkata Ramana Badarla Mobile Cloud Computing Divya Srivastava M.Tech. Advanced Computing : MANIT Bhopal, 2015 Gaurav Harit Document Image Analysis Dixit Dutt Bohra M.Tech. Digital Communication : JECRC Jodhpur 2014 Somitra Sanadhya , Dip Sankar Banerjee Hardware Security, Cryptography Garvit Chugh B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Delhi Technical Campus, Delhi, 2020 Suchetana Chakraborty , Sandip Chakraborty Mobile and Pervasive Computing Himani Sikarwar M.Tech. Mobile Computing : NIT, Hamirpur, 2017 Debasis Das Security and authentication in IoV Ishan Mishra B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Gurukul Kangri University, Haridwar, 2018 Deepak Mishra Life Long Deep Learning Jaspreet Kaur M.Tech. Information Security and Management : Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University, Delhi, 2016 Sumit Kalra IoT Data Security using Blockchain and ML Methods Jayant Mahawar M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering : Indian Institute of Information Technology Vadodara, 2019 Angshuman Paul Medical Image Analysis Jayant Vyas M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Indian Institute of Technology Patna, 2016 Debasis Das , Santanu Chaudhury Intelligent Transportation System Kamal Kumar Gola M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Uttarakhand Technical University, Dehradun, 2015 Suchetana Chakraborty Underwater Acoustic Sensor Networks Kartik Thakral B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : College of Engineering, Roorkee, 2019 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Deep Learning Km Bhavna M.Tech. Computer Science and Technology Cyber Security : Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, 2019 Romi Banerjee , Dipanjan Roy Cognitive Neuro-Science Kondagurle Sukitha B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : JNTUH University College of Engineering Hyderabad, 2022 Suchetana Chakraborty CPS Security, IoT and Trust Computing Kopal Rastogi M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : PDPM Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Jabalpur, 2019 Dip Sankar Banerjee , Dipanjan Roy Computational Neuroscience, NeuroAI Mahapara Khurshid M.Tech. Computer Science and Technology : Central University of Jammu, Jammu, 2018 Richa Singh , Mayank Vatsa Machine Learning, Deep Learning Mayank Kumar Kundalwal M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : NIT Patna, 2018 Deepak Mishra Causal Inference Monu Nagar B.Tech. Electronics and Communication Engineering : Uttar Pradesh Technical University, Lucknow, 2010 Debasis Das Computer Vision, Artificial Intelligence Muskan Dosi M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : IIT, Jodhpur, 2021 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Computer vision, Deep learning, Machine learning, Biometrics Nandini Saini M.Tech. Information Technology : ABV Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management, Gwalior, 2018 Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay , Debasis Das Aerial Image analysis, Object Detection, Explainable AI, Multimodality Analysis Neelu Verma B.Tech. Information Technology : MITS, Gwalior, 2017 Anand Mishra Graph representation learning for downstream vision task Nidhi Soni M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : UIET Kurukshetra, 2023 Richa Singh , Mayank Vatsa Machine Learning, Deep-learning, Biometrics Niveditta B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Indraprastha University, Delhi, 2017 Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay , Mayurakshi Chaudhuri Gender Studies Using Multi Modal Data Obed Jamir B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Lovely Professional University, 2021 Angshuman Paul Machine Learnings Osho M.Tech. Information Systems Security Engineering : NIT, Jamshedpur, 2021 Suchetana Chakraborty Mobile and Pervasive Computing, IoT Prajjwal Nijhara B.Tech. Electrical Engineering : Aligarh Muslim University, 2022 Dip Sankar Banerjee High Performance Computer, Data Analytics Prakash Narain M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : IIT Jodhpur, 2023 Dip Sankar Banerjee High Performance Computer, Data Analytics Prasenjeet Roy B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : G.H. Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur, 2018 Suman Kundu On Generalized HML Social Network Pulkit Garg B.Tech. Information Technology Mathematical Innovations : CIC, University of Delhi, 2020 Somitra K. Sanadhya Digital Forensics Ravi Kumar Saxena B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : NIT Bhopal, 2012 Mayank Vasta , Richa Singh Machine Learning, Deep-learning, Biometrics Ridhi Aggarwal M.Tech. Electronics Product Design Technology : C-DAC Mohali, 2013 Gaurav Harit , Anil Kumar Tiwari Context Based Learning Rishabh Ranjan B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : SLIET, Punjab, 2018 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Biometrics, ML, Pattern Recognition Rudra Dutt B.Tech. Computer Engineering : Ajeenkya DY Patil University, Pune, 2023 Yashaswi Verma Machine Learning, Computer Vision Sagar Satapathy B.Tech. Electronics and Communication Engineering : NIT Rourkela, 2019 Dip Sankar Banerjee Computer Architecture, Low Power VLSI, Approximate Computing and Reconfigurable Systems Sagar Shamanna B.Tech. Electronics and Communication Engineering : Visvesvaraya Technological University Karnataka, 2008 Deepak Mishra Causal Inference Sandeep Khanna M.E. Computer Science and Engineering : Devi Ahilya Vishvavidyalaya Indore M.P., 2013 Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay , Suman Kundu Machine Learning, Deep Learning Sandeep Wadhwa M.Tech. Computer Science : IIT Madras, 2000 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Artificial intelligence Machine Learning Santosh Kumar M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : IIT, Madras, 2007 Somitra K. Sanadhya Cyber Security Sasikanth Kotti M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence : IIT Jodhpur, 2023 Mayank Vasta , Richa Singh Deep-learning, Computer Vision Satish Kumar Ray M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : C.S.V.T.U. Bhilai, 2013 Sumit Kalra Software Architecture Shankar Kumar Jha B.Tech. Information Technology : West Bengal University of Technology, 2011 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Deep Learning, Computer Vision Shraban K Chatterjee B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : University of Calcutta, Kolkata, 2018 Suman Kundu On Generalized HML Social Network Shreyansh Sharma M.Tech. Information Architecture Software Engineering : School of Computer Science IT, DAVV, Indore, 2019 Santanu Chaudhury Blockchain, Biometric Security Shubham Bagwari M.E. Software Engineering : Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, 2022 Pratik Mazumder Few-Shot learning, Continual Learning Shubham Gupta B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technical University, Noida, 2015 Suman Kundu Event Detection in Dynamic Social Networks Somraj Gautam M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering : IIT ISM Dhanbad, 2020 Gaurav Harit Computer Vision, Deep learning, Document Image analysis Sujay Kumar Ingle B.Tech. Computer Science Engineering : MIT ADT university, 2022 Avinash Sharma Deep-learaning, Computer Vision Surbhi Mittal M.Sc. Computer Science , University of Delhi, 2019 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Deep Learning Susmita Mondal M.Tech. Electronics and Communication Engineering , Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, Katra, 2020 Suchetana Chakraborty Blockchain Technology, IoT, Edge Computing Swapnil S. Mane M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering , College of Engineering, Pune, 2021 Suman Kundu Social Network Analysis, Natural Language Processing Violet Deepa Sera M.Sc. Information Technology , Sikkim Manipal University, 2012 Sumit Kalra Computing in Healthcare Yasmeena Akhter B.Tech. Information Technology , NIT Srinagar, 2018 Mayank Vatsa , Richa Singh Deep Learning, Computer Vision Yogesh Kumar M.Sc. Computer Science Engineering , Delhi University, Delhi, 2019 Anand Mishra Computer Vision, NLP Graduated Students Name Graduated Year Supervisor Research Area Thesis Title Current Position Lokendra Vishwakarma 2024 Debasis Das Blockchain, Smart cities Cutting Edge Consensus Algorithms in Scalable and Interoperable Blockchain Assistant Professor, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala Ridhi Agarwal 2024 Gaurav Harit , Anil Kumar Tiwari Context Based Learning Recognition of Offline Handwritten Mathematical Expression Ravi Sharma 2022 Venkata Ramana Badarla Wireless Sensor Networks, Internet of Things A Multi Objective Beacon Placement Strategy for 3D Point Cloud Representation of Indoor Environments Research Associate, SPIN Laboratory, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh Shreya Goyal 2022 Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Gaurav Bhatnagar Computer Vision and NLP Fine Grained feature representation using computer vision techniques for understanding indoor spaces Postdoctoral Fellow, Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and AI Hiteshi Jain 2020 Gaurav Harit Video Analysis Assessment of Human Action in Videos Senior Applied Scientist, Perfios Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd. Pratibha Choudhary 2020 Aritra Banik, Venkatesh Raman Parameterized Complexity and Graph Theory Parameterized Complexity of Tracking Paths Postdoctoral fellow, Department of Theoretical Computer Science, Faculty of Information Technology, Czech Technical University, Prague Divya Sharma 2019 Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay Image Retrieval and Analysis Content Based Retrieval in images and sketches Senior Biostatistician, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network Shilpa Pandey 2019 Gaurav Harit Document Layout Analysis Some Methods for Annotation Localization and Writer Identification for Processing Annotated Documents Assistant Professor, Information Communication Technology, Adani Institute of Infrastructure Engineering Kapil Sharma 2018 Venkata Ramana Badarla Data Center Networking Utilizing Topology Structures for Delay Sensitive Traffic in Data Center Network Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Jaypee University of Information Technology Pradumn Kumar Pandey 2017 Bibhas Adhikari , Mainak Mazumdar and Venkata Ramana Badarla Parametric network models, network reconstruction and diffusion protocols for networks Assistant professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Roorkee Vibha Sahlot 2017 Aritra Banik Subhashish Banerjee Parameterized complexity, Approximation Algorithms, Computational Geometry Conflicts in Geometry Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cologne Heena Rathore 2015 Venkata Ramana Badarla Interdisciplinary - combining ideas from machine learning, psychology, biology and sensor networks Improving Security in Wireless Sensor Networks Through Bio-Inspired Approaches Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science, University of Texas, SA, USA Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Webinars Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Webinars We organise talks on various topics in Computer Science Engineering semimonthly. You can find the details of upcoming and previous talks on this page along with the slides and videos of the previous talks. If you are interested to attend the talks, please fill this form to subscribe to our mailing list. You can also follow us on Facebook , Twitter , LinkedIn for regular updates, and our YouTube channel for recordings of previous lectures. Upcoming Talks Previous Talks Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Students Presentation Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Students Presentation Upcoming Presentation Previous Presentations Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

IIT Jodhpur Industry Connect 2022 Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! IIT Jodhpur Industry Connect 2022 Home Directions Flyer Program Future of Computing: Emerging Trends of Computing and Applications We welcome you to the IIT Jodhpur Industry Connect 2022 to be held at The Energy and Resources Institute TERI , Bengaluru on November 26, 2022. The event is planned to start in the afternoon at 2 PM, which will start with an interactive session with the Industry leaders followed by a workshop on Future of Computing . The Director of IIT Jodhpur along with senior academics will represent IIT Jodhpur at the event. The computing world is presently at the cusp of a paradigm shift. Innovations on several fronts, ranging from newer materials, to massive strides made in artificial intelligence, to providing personalized experiences, there are several frontiers that are now pushing the envelope of established practices. In order to enable increasingly complex and smart computer applications, new computer technologies such as quantum and neuromorphic computers are on the rise. Even the most powerful conventional computer can only assign a one or a zero to each bit. Quantum computing, by contrast, uses quantum bits, or qubits, which can be a zero, a one, both at once, or some point in between, all at the same time. We can now convert data to base 4 and you can encode it on synthetic DNA. We possess rich know-how to sequence read , synthesize write to , and copy DNA. A little bit of it stores a whole lot of information; some researchers believe we could meet the worlds entire data storage needs for a year with a cubic meter of powdered e. coli DNA which will eventually lead to evolution of DNA storage. Along with the technologies of computing, the diversity and trustability of the applications of computing along with scale is also of paramount importance. Applications in security, healthcare, finance, ambient intelligence and metaverse provide immense opportunities to build private, secure and accurate solutions. In this workshop, we shall aim to discuss and ideate on the path that academia and industry need to take in order to be adaptable for this change. The workshop shall bring together experts from both the worlds in order to create bridges and create a common platform in order to chalk out the way forward. This is specifically imperative for a new institute like IIT Jodhpur which aspires to be future ready, and play a critical role in transformational technologies and interventions. Directions The Energy and Resources Institute of India TERI 4th Main Road, Domlur II Stage, Domlur, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560071. Flyer Industry Connect by IIT Jodhpur Venue: TERI Auditorium, 4th Main Road, Domlur II stage, Domlur, BENGALURU Event Speaker Moderator Content Time Welcome Gaurav Bhatnagar 14:30-14:40 IITJ Connect Santanu Chaudhary Director IITJ progress, vision, goals, industry orientation 14:40-15:20 Industry Connect Manoj Choudhary Industry connect, proposed Industry Day 15:20-15:30 Discussion Manoj Choudhary, Angshuman Paul Moderator Expectations by the Industry from IITJ and vice-versa 15:30-16:15 Alimni Chapter Shankar Manoharan Alumni Chapter launch - Bangalore 16:15-16:25 Impromptu Talk by 2 3 alumni from Bangalore Chapter 16:25-16:35 High Tea 16:35-17:00 Continuing Executive Education programs at IITJ Kaushal Desai Philosophy, breadth and uniqueness of different executive program offerings by IITJ 17:00-17:15 Executive M.Tech in AI Richa Singh Executive programs in AI by IITJ 17:25-17:45 Discussion Kaushal Desai, Anand Mishra Moderator Feedback suggestions by the Industry and participants on Executive programs 15:30-16:15 Workshop on Future of Computing and Applications Moderator: Mayank Vatsa Aloknath De, Samsung The Power Factor in the future of computing 17:45-19:15 CP Ravi Kumar, Texas Instruments Vijay Chandru, StrandLS Dip Sankar Banerjee IITJ Attendees:Industry representatives Alumni from Bangalore IITJ delegation Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Winter School IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Winter School On AI And TCS - 2024 The Department of Computer Science and Engineering and TIH iHub Drishti are jointly organizing the third winter school on Artificial Intelligence and Theoretical Computer Science. The school is being organized as an in-person event. This year the school will be focused on Generative AI: December 9-10, 2024 Computation in Social Choice and Economics: December 11-13, 2024 Students who successfully complete the Winter School and obtain a participation certificate will be prioritized for summer winter internship at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Jodhpur under the mentorship of Dr. Pallavi Jain or Dr. Pratik Mazumder and or Dr. Anand Mishra. Important Dates School: December 9-13, 2024 Deadline of Registration: November 15, 2024 We also have a poster session on December 12, 2024 focusing on Computation in Social Choice and Economics. Interested participants may share their abstracts in the registration form. Speakers Aditya Nigam IIT Mandi Anand Mishra IIT Jodhpur Angshuman Paul IIT Jodhpur Danish Pruthi IISc Joseph K J Adobe Research Kurt Mehlhorn Max Planck Ins. for Info. Pallavi Jain IIT Jodhpur Pratik Mazumder IIT Jodhpur Saket Saurabh IMSc Sanjay Seetharaman IMSc Suman Kundu IIT Jodhpur Sushmita Gupta IMSc Umang Bhaskar TIFR Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 24 Mar :11 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Grad Cohort Workshop IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The ACM-W India Grad Cohort Workshop 2022 Since 2004, the CRA-WP has been organizing the Grad Cohort Workshop in the USA for women in computing, to help them through their graduate years and beyond. Starting 2018, Grad Cohort Workshops for Indian women are being conducted by ACM-W India. These Workshops aim to reach out to Indian women graduate students in the field of computing; facilitating interactions between eminent female researchers in the field, from academia and industry, and current students. Here, through sharing some of their own experiences, women experts guide students towards a productive graduate tenure. Some questions that are likely to be discussed are how to choose a mentor, choice of research areas and questions, challenges and perseverance, honing ones skills, scientific writing and presentation, work-life balance, spirit of collaboration, applying for postdocs jobs, career options, and much more. In 2022, the ACM-W India Grad Cohort Workshop is being organized in the online mode by IIT Jodhpur. Applicants can look forward to presentations on a host of research areas, mentoring brainstorming sessions, networking opportunities, and lots more... Important Dates Registration Deadline: July 18, 2022 Workshop: July 21-22, 2022 Eligibility Masters and Ph.D. women students at Indian Universities or Institutes. Organizing Committee From ACM Chitra Babu Heena Timani Lipika Dey Neeldhara Misra From IITJ Pallavi Jain Richa Singh Romi Banerjee Organizers Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Aug :48 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Researchers Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Researchers Postdoctoral Fellows We are actively seeking applications from motivated students for Postdoctoral positions, particularly in those of interest to the faculty members at the department. Apply online Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Students Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Students B. TECH M. TECH M. TECH PhD PhD Internships We encourage highly motivated students to apply for short and long term internships. The short term internship is usually offered during the summer for three months, May-July. For long term internships, we encourage you to contact the faculty members directly. Form for Summer internships for UG PG students Highlights Option to pursue internship on campus. Accommodation will be arranged at IITJ hostels. Option to pursue BTech MTech final year project work in collaboration with CSE faculty, provided there is no objection from applicants university institute. Opportunity to pursue longer term commitments in the form of PhD, MTech PhD on satisfactory performance subject to fulfilment of admission requirements . Opportunity to work in core and interdisciplinary areas in a department with faculties from diverse backgrounds. Opportunity to work in some of the cutting edge areas of computer science: Computer Vision and Image processing Machine Learning including Deep Learning Internet of Things Telemedicine IoT and Sensory Data Analytics Multi-access edge computing Parameterized complexity Computational Social Choice Theory Security and Blockchain Cryptography Computer Architecture High Performance Computing Web development Mobile app development For More Details: Our Research Areas Labs Our Programs Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Contact Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Contact Department of Computer Science Engineering Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District eMail: office cse at iitj dot ac dot in head cse at iitj dot ac dot in Phone: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Join Us Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! F Faculty R Researchers S Students Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Faculty Positions IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to Faculty Positions Portal Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur invites online applications from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for full-time faculty positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor to conduct teaching and research in the following Departments and Schools. Departments Bioscience Bioengineering Chemistry Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Physics Engineering Aerospace Engineering Economics Energy and Automotive Engineering Environment Sustainability Engineering Schools School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science SAIDE School of Design SOD School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Management Entrepreneurship SME The Institute cordially invites interested candidates to consider choosing IIT Jodhpur as their venue to realize. their dreams to serve the nation, through their competencies that would help to address the technology grand challenges of the nation. Use the following link to apply Click Here To Apply Online Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Scale of Pay Faculty Positions IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Scale of Pay The following table provides an estimate of the total approximate emoluments of Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur in accordance with Government of Indias 7th Pay Commission order: Assistant Professor Years of Experience after Ph.D. Basic Pay Pay Level Designation 01 years Rs. 70,900 Level 10, Cell 8 Assistant Professor Grade II 12 years Rs. 73,100 Level 11, Cell 3 Assistant Professor Grade II 23 years Rs. 75,300 Level 11, Cell 4 Assistant Professor Grade II 3 years onwards Rs. 1,01,500 Level 12, Cell 1 Assistant Professor Grade I After 3 years at Level 12 Rs. 1,31,400 Level 13A1, Cell 1 Assistant Professor Grade I Associate Professor Designation Basic Pay Pay Level Associate Professor Rs. 1,39,600 Level 13A2, Cell 1 Professor Designation Basic Pay Pay Level Professor Rs. 1,59,100 Level 14A, Cell 1 Apart from Basic Pay as mentioned above , Dearness Allowance, House Rent Allowance in case of Quarter is not allotted by the Institute , and Transportation Allowance will be paid as per the Institutes norms. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

General Instructions to Applicants Faculty Positions IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! General Instructions to Applicants Interested candidates may apply with all the details requested in ONLINE application placed on the website of IIT Jodhpur . Further, Applications are welcomed throughout the year. The applicants are required to apply only through ONLINE process and upload relevant documents accordingly. Applications will be screened for the interview once every three months. Although recruitment will be prioritized on the basis of need in certain areas within a particular discipline, applications may also be considered from exceptional candidates with background in other areas of the specified discipline. Institute adopts reservations policy as per Government of India norms. In case of exceptional candidates, the Institute reserves the right to relax age, qualifications and or experience. Applicants are requested to upload the certificates in required format along with the application form. The Institute reserves the right to fill or not to fill any or all of the advertised posts. Candidates employed in Government and Semi-Government Organizations, Public Sector Enterprises, Autonomous Organizations, University and Educational Institutes must provide No Objection Certificate from their present employer at the time of interview, in case he she is shortlisted for interview. Candidates shortlisted for the Interview will be provided economy class Air-Fare for travel in India by Air India from the starting airport to Jodhpur Airport and return by the shortest route. Reimbursement will be made by bank transfer RTGS in due course of time by the Institute on submission of necessary forms and documents. Application with insufficient information or without relevant supporting documents will not be considered for further processing. The Institute may verify the antecedents or documents submitted by a person at the time of appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents submitted by the candidates are fake or the candidate has a clandestine antecedents or background and has suppressed the said information, then his or her services shall be terminated. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , , , , For more details, please visit the link. . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Electrical Engineering The Department of Electrical Engineering primarily focuses on imparting quality education and preparing students to face future technological challenges. The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic and human resource development. The Department is committed to engage in high-quality research by Faculty Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence in teaching. The Department offers B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering with broad range of major and minor specializations and three state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs in Sensors and Internet of Things SIoT , Cyber Physical Systems CPS , and Intelligent Communication Systems ICS . The Department also runs dual degree M.Tech. Ph.D. programs in Intelligent Communication Systems, Sensors and Internet of Things SIoT and Cyber Physical Systems CPS as well as Ph.D. program with a broad range of specializations covering detailed aspects of Microelectronics, Signal Processing, Communication, Microwave Photonics, Power systems, Control systems etc. The Department is also starting a new Executive MTech Program in Intelligent VLSI Systems for working professionals from July 2022. The prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students are encouraged to visit the Academic Programs UG Program, PG Programs and Doctoral Programs page of the Department to know more about the details of courses offered in the department. To know more about the current research themes of the faculty members, the prospective students are encouraged to visit the Research Overview page of the Department. Technology Tracks currently pursued by the Department include emerging and challenging fields that culminate at the intersection of several traditional research areas. Current Technology Tracks Active collaboration is on-going with organizations like Freescale Semiconductors, Global Foundries, AIIMS Jodhpur, DST, DRDO, and ISRO, to name a few. The Department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R D organizations since its inception. Consolidated year-wise cutoffs of last four years Download file: 342 KB Highlights View all highlights Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal Impact Factor 13 Ph.D. student Mr. Prabhanshu Yadav won the Best Paper Award in IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications Systems Dr. Akshay Moudgil Awarded Teaching Excellence Award Latest News View all news 1 Result of Ph.D. Admissions AY 2025-26 Semester II 2 Consolidated year-wise cutoffs of last four years 3 List of candidates shortlisted for Ph.D. Admission, 2nd round, AY 2025-26, Semester-I Latest Event View all events Mar Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR ... Dec Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based Communication Systems Design 21st - 24th December 2025 Feb VLSI Test Workshop : The program is intended for the Faculty, UG, and PG students, research scholars, practicing engineers, and people from R D in the field of VLSI Design. Apr Expert Talk by Prof. H.M. Gupta on: Evolution of ICTs: Historical and Indian Context Apr Invited Talk by Mr. Tapas Nandy: Cycle of Inter-chip Communication: Past-Present-Future Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Post Doctoral Fellows Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Post Doctoral Fellows The Institute invites applications for temporary Research Positions in various disciplinary and inter-disciplinary areas of interest to the Institute. Interested persons with Doctoral Degrees, exceptional academic record and research preparation, are invited to apply using the links below: List of the projects : Download file: 76.6 KB the list. For more details, please visit the link . Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Project Staff Members Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Project Staff Members Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Ongoing Projects Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Ongoing Projects Title PI Co-PI Funding Agency Year of Completion Technology Track A Programmable CMOS image sensor for high speed, low power and low noise applications Funded Amandeep Kaur, PI SERB Dec 2020-Dec2022 Analog and mixed signals circuits or VLSI Systems A Robust Visual Positioning System Himanshu Kumar PI SERB 2023 Signal and Image Processing Achieving Collaborative Missions via Distributed Coordination and Control of Autonomous Multi-Vehicle System Anoop Jain, PI IIT JODHPUR 2024 AI ML, IoT, and Wireless Practice Advisory Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav PI Spanidea Systems Pvt. Ltd. Bengaluru February, 2021 2 Years An endoscopic camera system Approved Amandeep Kaur, PI BIRAC Analog and mixed signals circuits or VLSI Systems An Interdisciplinary study of Technologically Manipulated Information: Its ecosystem and its psycho-social impact Rajendra Nagar CO-PI ICSSR 2024 Computer Vision and Machine Learning Animatable Human 3D Surface Reconstruction from Partial 3D Scans Rajendra Nagar PI IIT JODHPUR 2024 3D Computer Vision and Geometry Processing Compact Modeling and Simulations of Nano-Scale Devices Harshit Agarwal, PI IIT JODHPUR 2023 Nanotechnology Data-driven Haptic Modeling and Rendering of Normal Interactions on Inhomogeneous Viscoelastic Deformable Objects Dr. Amit Bhardwaj PI DST-SERB Dec2022 Computer Haptics Design and Development of NavIC Receiver Arun Kumar Singh, PI Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India 2020 Technologies for Sustainability Design and Development of Substrate Integrated Waveguide SIW and Empty SIW ESIW Based RF-Microwave Components Arani Ali Khan, PI SERB 2022 5G Beyond Communication Design, fabrication and characterization of all-fiber Multimode Interference MMI devices for generating highly pure Laguerre-Gaussian LG modes in free-space Nitin Bhatia PI SERB-DST Dec 2022 5G BEYOND COMMUNICATIONS Development of Cognitive Cyber-Physical System C2PS testbed Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav PI Dr. Aashish Mathur Co-PI C3iHub, IIT Kanpur 3 years CPS Development of low cost sensors for monitoring of odours in ambient air Mahesh Kumar, PI SERB 2022 Nanoelectronics and ICs Development of System to Mitigate Second Order Harmonic Ripple in AC DC Microgrid using Advanced Control Techniques Deepak Fulwani, PI SERB 2023 Cyber-Physical Systems Establishment of AI-Based Platform to Monitor and Identify Smell Taste and Key Covid19 Erapeutic Hotspots Amandeep Kaur, PI DST Dec 2021 AIoT Experimental Investigation and Performance Evaluation of HARQ Technique for Free-Space Optical Communication Systems Aashish Mathur, PI SERB 2022 5G Beyond Communication Experimental Investigation and Performance Evaluation of Visible Light Communication Systems Ashish Mathur PI IIT JODHPUR 2023 Communication System Gate All Around Steep Slope Transistors Harshit Agarwal, PI DST 2024 Haptic Camera: Inter-relationship between Different Sensing Modalities for Textured Surfaces Amit Bhardwaj PI Seed Grant IIT Jodhpur March. 2022- March. 2025 5G BEYOND COMMUNICATIONS Haptics Based Medical Simulator for Abdomen Palpation and Pulse Behavior Rajendra Nagar CO-PI TIH IIT Jodhpur 2024 3D Computer Vision and Robotics High Performance Low Voltage Flexible Organic Field-Effect Transistors for Circuit and Sensing Applications Shree Prakash Tiwari, PI SERB 2021 Nanoelectronics and ICs Hub and Spoke Consortia for e2W and e3W Electric Drives-Design Development of Prototyping of Advanced IM and Synchronous Reluctance Drives and Vehicle Integration for e2W and e3W Applications Deepak Fulwani, Co-PI Consortium Project Department of Heavy Industry, Government of India 2020 Cyber-Physical Systems Human perception driven on-chip compression for power efficient CMOS image sensors Approved Dr. Amandeep Kaur MSME Analog and mixed signals circuits or VLSI Systems Investigation on Planar Horn Antenna using Substrate Integrated Waveguide SIW Technology Soumava Mukherjee, PI IIT Jodhpur 2021 5G Beyond Communication Object Based Spatial 3D Audio Rendering for Augmented and Virtual Reality Applications Manish Narwaria, PI SERB 2022 Augmented and virtual reality Perception-Theoretic Approach for Quantifying Robustness of Machine Learning Models Manish Narwaria, PI SERB 2024 Signal processing and machine learning Photometry based Biomedical Analyzer Arpit Khandelwal PI Johari Digital Healthcare Pvt. Ltd 2023 Analog and mixed signals circuits or VLSI Systems Point of use and in-line coliform sensors for smart water management PI- Dr. Meenu Chhabra and Co-PI - Dr. Arpit Khandelwal, Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Dr. kamaljit Rangra, Dr. Ravi Bhandari and Dr. Raviraj Vankayala Jal Shakti Ministry, GoI 2023 Sensors Real-Time 3D Scene Reconstruction and Localization of Autonomous Ground Vehicles in Unknown Environments Rajendra Nagar PI TIH IIT Jodhpur 2025 3D Computer Vision and Robotics Reflection Symmetry Based 3D Surface Reconstruction and Restoration from Partial Point Cloud Rajendra Nagar PI SERB 2023 3D Computer Vision and Geometry Processing Secure and Robust Coordination and Control of Autonomous Multi-Vehicle Systems with Desired Constraints Anoop Jain, PI DST - SERB 2022 Cyber-Physical Systems Special Manpower development Program for Chips to System Design SMDP-C2SD Design of a Sensor Signal Conditioning System I Multiprocessor Scheduling Alogrithms using Control Theoretic Approach II Shree Prakash Tiwari, PI Department of Electronics and Information Technology 2020 Nanoelectronics and ICs Substate Integrated Coaxial Line SICL based Circuits and Systems for Millimeter Wave Application Soumava Mukherjee, PI Department of Science Technology DST - INSPIRE, Government of India 2022 5G Beyond Communication Telepresence and Teleaction System for Robot Assisted Dentistry Dr. Amit Bhardwaj PI IHFC IIT Delhi December 2020- December 2022 Robot Technology Unified Modeling and Design of High Voltage Transistors Harshit Agarwal PI SERB 2023 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Completed Projects Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Completed Projects Title PI CO-PI Funding Agency Year of completion Noise-enhanced Edge-preserving Image Denoising using Stochastic Resonance Rajlaxmi Chouhan, PI SERB, DST 2020 Design and Development of Midrange 10 km RF Transceiver system to transmit Nuclear Radiation Sensor Data Arpit Khandelwal, PI DRDO, Jodhpur 2019 Design and Development of Tunable RF Filters based on Ferroelectric Thin Films by Sputtering Mahesh Kumar, PI DMRL DRDO Hyderabad 2019 Modification of electron and hole transport layers for High Efficiency Perovskite Solar Cells Mahesh Kumar, PI Indo-U.S. Science and Technology Forum 2018 Computationally efficient fixed complexity sphere decodes for multiuser MIMO communications Arun Kumar Singh, PI SERB 2019 Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering Mahesh Kumar, PI Indian National Science Academy INSA 2019 Ion-Beam Synthesis and Characterization of Gallium Nitride based Nanocrystals embedded in Si based Matrices for New-Generation Photodetector and Light-Emitter Applications Mahesh Kumar, PI DST 2019 Algorithms for Blind Signal Detection and Demodulation Sandeep Kumar Yadav, PI Department Research Development Organisation DRDO , Government of India 2018 Devlopement of MEMS Based Gas Sensors using RF Sputtered Transition Metal Dopen ZnO Nanostructures Mahesh Kumar, PI SERB 2018 Encapsulation of Organic Devices by Atomic Layer Deposition DRDO CAR Proposal Shree Prakash Tiwari, PI Defense Research and Development Organization DRDO , Jodhpur 2016 Reproductive Child Health Sandeep Kumar Yadav, PI UNICEF, Jaipur Branch 2016 Development of Metal Doped TiO2 Low Dimension Structures by Sputtering for Gas Sensing Applications Mahesh Kumar,PI Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences, Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India 2017 Enabling Technologies for Integlligent Wireless Sensor Network for Health and Environment Monitoring Anil Kumar Tiwari, PI DST 2015 Developing Dielectric Semiconductor Combinations and Processes for Flexible Organic Electronics Shree Prakash Tiwari, PI SERB 2016 Development of Programmable Emulator for Photovoltaic Plant to Facilitate Complex Testing Requirements Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, PI SERB 2015 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Collaborations Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Collaborations Faculty Members of the Department of Electrical Engineering are keen to collaborate with individuals from academia, R D laboratories and industry in India and abroad, in areas of mutual interest. Some of the current collaborations are as follows: Research group at IIT Jodhpur is developing compact models for SPICE circuit simulation in collaboration with UC Berkeley. With Carleton University, a joint research on Signal Integrity and Power Integrity is going on, actively. Further, one of our faculty members is an Adjunct Faculty Member at Carleton University. With TIMA Laboratory, a collaboration is on design of high-speed ICs and on-chip noise jitter modeling. This collaboration focuses on Cooperative Control of Passivity-Short Systems. Passivity is defined as an input-output behavior of a dynamical system and closely related to the principle of energy conservation. In practice, however, most of the systems are not well behaved and possess a shortage of passivity or non-passiveness in their operation. The scope of this collaboration deals with the analysis and synthesis of the networks comprising the passive-short systems. With NTNU, IIT Jodhpur is actively involved in research related to mitigating the challenges in physical layer security of communication systems and improving the performance of free space optical communication systems. This collaboration focuses on Macromodeling and EDA Algorithm development for VLSI systems. A PhD student is being jointly supervised by faculty members from both the institutes. This collaboration focuses on Secure Coordination and Control of Multi-Agent Systems. The collaboration is a part of the NM-ICPS Technology Innovation Hub TIH in Robotics and Autonomous Systems proposed by IISc, Bangalore. The scope of collaboration includes designing distributed guidance and control strategies for the multivehicle network systems for their secure and robust coordination and control against malicious adversaries. There are collaborations among multiple groups of IIT Jodhpur and IIT Delhi. These collaborations involve i The performance analysis of 5G and beyond communication systems and exploring the ways of improving physical layer security ii Data processing and machine learning for the sensors data iii Detection of breast cancer through optical techniques iv Implementation of mmwave antennas for 5G test bed user equipment Research group at IIT Jodhpur is working in collaboration with IIT Kanpur for the characterization and modeling of advanced semiconductor devices, measurement of microwave and mmwave antennas and circuits. With IIT Mandi, research on high-speed system design and noise modeling in VLSI systems is going on. There is a PhD student jointly supervised by faculty members from both the institutes. The collaboration with IIIT-MK is on Neuromorphic Circuits and Systems. IITJ is collaborating with these institutions for the design and development of an indigenous dual frequency NavIC receiver. IITJ work includes design and development of baseband signal processing algorithms for correlator receivers that perform signal acquisition, code and carrier tracking, control lock detection, accumulated delta range computation and data demodulation. These algorithms would be translated to digital ASIC based correlator hardware by IIT Bombay, IIT Madras, IIST Thiruvananthapuram, SAMEER. ISRO is providing required technological know-how for various aspects related to system engineering for NavIC receivers. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Research Overview Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Research Overview The research areas pursued by faculty members of the Department of Electrical Engineering can be broadly categorized as follows. Please click on the respective groups to know about their research and associated labs. If you wish to browse Research Areas mapped to the Technology Tracks of the Department, please click on the respective Tracks below to view the research themes, associated research groups, labs and faculty members for each technology track. Additionally, faculty members from the Department are engaged in challenging interdisciplinary research in collaboration with faculty members across various departments and discplines through the Institute's Interdisciplinary Research Platforms IDRPs . Technology Tracks 1 5G Beyond Communication Research Themes Rate, reliability and complexity limits in MIMO communications Performance improvement and security of Optical Wireless Communications Millimeterwave antennas and circuits for 5G application Associated Research Groups Associated Laboratories Associated Faculty Members Aashish Mathur Arani Ali Khan Arun Kumar Singh Nitin Bhatia Soumava Mukherjee 2 Signal Processing Interpretation Research Themes Sociodigital Reality AR, VR, Haptics, Speech and Language Analysis Visual Computing Computer Vision, Visual Forensics, Machine Learning Signal Processing for IoT Predictive Maintenance, Digital Twin, Communication Associated Research Groups Associated Laboratories Associated Faculty Members Amit Bhardwaj Anil Kumar Tiwari Himanshu Kumar Manish Narwaria Rajendra Nagar Rajlaxmi Chouhan Sandeep Kumar Yadav 3 Cyber-Physical Systems Research Themes Multi-agent system Mechatronics cyber-physical systems Robust optimal control Adaptive control robotics Electric vehicles Associated Research Groups Associated Laboratories Associated Faculty Members Abdul Gafoor Shaik Anoop Jain Deepak Fulwani Niladri Sekhar Tripathy 4 Nanoelectronics Integrated Circuits Research Themes Multi-agent system Oxide metal semiconductors by sputtering for sensor applications 2D materials: MoS2, AlGaN GaN HEMTs Bandgap engineering and surface studies of semiconductors Micro and Nano device fabrications Organic and Flexible Electronics: Field-effect transistors FETs , Circuits, and Sensors Electrical characterization, Parameter extraction, Interface characterization Device Simulation: New and Unconventional Devices Compact Modeling for Circuit Simulations CMOS image sensors Analog and mixed-signal circuits Associated Research Groups Associated Laboratories Associated Faculty Members Ajay Agarwal Amandeep Kaur Bhupendra Singh Reniwal Harshit Agarwal Jai Narayan Tripathi Kamaljit Rangraa Mahesh Kumar Saakshi Dhanekar Shree Prakash Tiwari 5 Smart Grid Research Themes Control of micro-grid uncertain system Demand-side management Microgrid Control and dynamics of distributed generation Condition monitoring Associated Research Groups Associated Laboratories Associated Faculty Members Abdul Gafoor Shaik Deepak Fulwani Nishant Kumar Ravi Yadav 6 Embedded Computing SoC Research Themes High-speed VLSI Systems and EDA tools Signal Integrity Neuromorphic Computing Associated Research Groups Associated Laboratories Associated Faculty Members Amandeep Kaur Arpit Khandelwal Deepak Fulwani Jai Narayan Tripathi 7 Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT Research Themes Communication protocols for RF energy harvesting-based systems Chipless RFID Signal Processing for IoT Predictive Maintenance, Digital Twin, Communication Visual Computing Computer Vision, Visual Forensics, Machine Learning Associated Research Groups Associated Laboratories Associated Faculty Members Aashish Mathur Ajay Agarwal Amandeep Kaur Amit Bhardwaj Anil Kumar Tiwari Arpit Khandelwal Arun Kumar Singh Debasis Das CSE Himanshu Kumar Jai Narayan Tripathi Kamaljit Rangra Mahesh Kumar Nitin Bhatia Rajendra Nagar Saakshi Dhanekar Sandeep Kumar Yadav Shree Prakash Tiwari Soumava Mukherjee Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Undergraduate Program Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Undergraduate Program The vision of the Department is to develop a world class teaching and research atmosphere by excelling in fundamental knowledge and applications of Electrical Engineering through curricular and co-curricular activities. To accomplish this, the department offers an undergraduate program in the broad discipline of electrical engineering, with embedded capability-linked specializations, for enabling the students to pursue a chosen career path. The 4 year B.Tech program provides the core electrical engineering concepts ranging from circuit analysis and design, computing, control, communication, signal processing, and power engineering. To equip the students with the essential knowledge and problem solving skills, the curriculum provides strong foundations in basic sciences. In addition, the engineering design component is integrated throughout the structure, motivating and familiarizing students with real-world engineering challenges. Additional problem-solving skills and practical experiences are developed through design projects and state-of-the-art laboratory experiments. The structure enables the students to shape their curriculum at various stages. This includes opting for a department specialization, transition to 5-year B.Tech. and M.Tech. Dual Degree program, an additional minor in relevant areas such as Entrepreneurship. Salient Features of the UG Programs New broad-based curriculum and flexible program structure Balance of theoretical foundations, hands-on, and experiential learning Emphasis on design-oriented thinking , creativity, and life-long learning Capability-linked Minor, Interdisciplinary, and Department-specific Specializations Skillset targeted towards emerging technologies like 5G Beyond Communication, Industry 4.0, Smart City Technologies Prepares students to compete effectively in a world of rapid technological advancements Option to pursue entrepreneurship industry collaboration through engineering innovation Startup ecosystems to translate ideas into business models Tinkering Lab, Technology Innovation Startup Center TISC , Research Park Expected Graduate Attributes Strong understanding of fundamentals of mathematics, science and engineering with emphasis on electrical technologies for Communication, Signal Processing, Devices Circuits, Computing Systems, Control Engineering, and Power Engineering Ability to apply technical skills to identify, formulate, and solve complex problems encountered in modern electrical engineering practices Ability to model, analyze, design and experimentally evaluate electrical components or systems that achieve desired technical specifications, subject to certain resource constraints Ability to compete effectively in a world of rapid technological advancements and assume leadership roles within academic, industrial, or entrepreneurial environments in the broad context of electrical engineering Foundations for critical thinking that are needed to broaden their careers in diverse disciplines through minor graduate-level studies and the process of lifelong learning Ability to recognize and practice professional ethics in working environment Ability to acquire new knowledge and apply it as needed Learning Outcomes To acquire knowledge of electrical engineering principles along with the required understanding of computing, engineering fundamentals, mathematics, and science To apply the concepts of mathematics, sciences and engineering including computing science necessary to analyze and design complex electrical and electronic circuits and systems containing hardware and software modules To gain in-depth understanding of concepts of Signals, Devices, Circuits, Systems, Machine Learning, Programming, Control, Communications, Hardware Design and related interdisciplinary topics To create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, electrical engineering design and computing tools to solve complex engineering problems with an understanding of the limitations through laboratory exercises and design projects To perform literature review and patent landscaping for innovative research To adapt to work in multidisciplinary environment To understand professional ethics and social responsibilities To communicate effectively To engage in independent and life-long learning in the context of technological advancements. To conduct product design or entrepreneurial activities BTech 4 Years This program is designed to provide students a basic exposure to Engineering with focus on the various domains of Electrical Engineering. These domains have been broadly divided into following areas: Communication, Computing Systems, Control Engineering, Devices and Circuits, Signal Processing, and Power Engineering. The program aims to connect academics to current emerging technologies and industrial requirements in these domains. The program also encompasses rigorous experimental components along with global standard courses comparable to top most universities. The program is also flexible enough to provide students options to shape the curriculum according to their interest. Students having inclined interest in any specific area as specified above can opt for relevant specialization. BTech with Specialization 4 Years The curriculum offers flexibility to students for pursuing capability-linked specializations of their choice. The department specializations are designed to enable students to lead technological innovations addressing the emerging industrial and societal challenges in various domains of electrical engineering. The EE students can opt for any one of the departmental specializations as mentioned below. The in-depth understanding and technical skills acquired through these specializations will enable graduates to play a vital role in advancement of technologies such as 5G 6G communications, smart cities, smart healthcare, and Industry 4.0. Students with research inclination also have options for 5-year B.Tech. and M.Tech. Dual Degree program. Department Specializations Click on the respective links to know more about these specializations Cyber Physical Systems Communication Engineering Intelligent Communication and Networking Visual Computing Socio-digital Reality Artificial Intelligence of Things AIoT VLSI Systems Nano and Flexible Electronics Smart Grid Engineering Innovation BTech with Minor 4 Years The institute also offers a 4-year B.Tech. program with minors in Entrepreneurship or Management or interdisciplinary specializations. Such a flexible curriculum enables students to pursue diverse career goals by choosing the curriculum based on their interests.Students will also have an opportunity to opt for a B. Tech. - Masters dual degree in their chosen specialization or minor area. The curriculum also offers numerous options that enable students to gain industrial experience through collaborative industrial projects at industries and entrepreneurship experience at the Institute's incubation centre. BTech-MTech Dual-degree 5 Years A B.Tech. student having opted for major minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end of the seventh semester and fulfilling minimum credit requirements may be allowed to switch to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. B.Tech-M.Tech Dual Degree in SIoT B.Tech-M.Tech Dual Degree in CPS BTech-MBA 5 Years IIT Jodhpur also provides options to BTech students to earn a Tech-MBA degree via a transition program. Students having inclination towards business can opt for this dual-degree program at the start of 5th semester. This program offers a range of specializations such as Business Analytics, Cyber Security, Financial Engineering, Technology Consulting, Technology Product Management. The Tech-MBA is a reflection of the growing demand for business leaders to have an exposure in various technological fields such as artificial intelligence AI , fintech and robotics. Tech-MBA is a new wholesome program totally focussing on the tech sector such as digital finance, data analytics and AI, as well as digital transformation. The aim of such a program is to enable students to apply their tech expertise within a business context. The program focuses on covering important aspects of corporate strategy analysis of top tech companies, like Amazon, Google, and tech-centric companies, such as start-ups in addition to business strategy. The economics and operations are going to be introduced with strong emphasis on the digital economy and supply chain in e-commerce companies respectively. Information for Electronics Engineering will be updated soon.. Click here to view and download the BTech EE Flyer. Download file: 2.73 MB Quick Access B.Tech. EE Curriculum Download file 2.7 MB First-Year B.Tech. Course on Intranet Regulations Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Postgraduate program Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Postgraduate program The Department of Electrical Engineering offers following Post Graduate Programs Master of Technology Programs M.Tech. Intelligent Communication Systems M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems M.Tech. Sensors and Internet of Things M.Tech. Intelligent VLSI Systems and Executive M.Tech Program in Intelligent VLSI Systems M.Tech. MicroElectronics VLSI Download file : 94.2 KB Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Programs M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Intelligent Communication Systems M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Cyber Physical Systems M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Sensors and Internet of Things Quick Access Advertisements Important Information Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Doctoral Program Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Doctoral Program PhD Program at Department of Electrical Engineering The Department of Electrical Engineering offers PhD in a wide range of emerging and challenging research areas of electrical engineering and allied interdisciplinary areas of communication engineering, RF, microwaves photonics, control engineering, power engineering, signal processing and computing systems, and microelectronics VLSI. The areas can also be mapped with the current technology tracks of the Department that include 5G and Beyond Communication, Signal Processing Interpretation, Cyber-Physical Systems, Nano-electronics Integrated Circuits, Smart Grid, Embedded systems SoC, and Artificial Intelligence Internet-of-Things IoT . Please visit Research Overview to know the associated research areas, laboratories, and faculty members associated with each technology track and research area. Our PhD students are trained to conduct high-quality cutting-edge research demonstrated through tangible deliverables, and to publish in top ranking journals and conferences. Specially-designed courses on technical communication and Intellectual Property Rights enable students in quality expression as well as patent landscaping for potential IP and business translation of their work. Weekly colloquium enables the students to keep open avenues of sharing ideas and learning from peers. Students have round-the-clock access to high-end research and computational facilities, and also have the opportunity of one additional year of fellowship after thesis submission to engage in translational and entrepreneurial initiatives arising out of their PhD work. On graduation, our doctoral students are trained in critical thinking, research, development, operations and management of emerging technological challenges for both industry and academia. Check out the Research Areas and Technology Tracks of the Department of EE. Quick Access Rolling Advertisement PhD Program Download file: 362 KB Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Curriculum Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Curriculum 1 Bachelor of Technology Programs B.Tech. Electrical Engineering Download file: 2.2 MB 2 Master of Technology Programs M.Tech. MicroElectronics VLSI Download file: 94.2 MB M.Tech. Intelligent Communication Systems M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems M.Tech. Sensors and Internet of Things 3 Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Programs M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Intelligent Communication Systems M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Cyber Physical Systems M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Sensors and Internet of Things 4. Doctor of Philosophy Program Ph.D. Electrical Engineering Please refer to Table 22.6 of the Regulations Download file: 536 KB for the minimum credits to be earned. The student can choose the courses from the list of electives available in the corresponding semester. In addition, the students would also go through the following non-graded compulsory courses: Non-graded Course 1 - Technical Communication Non-graded Course 2 - Innovation and IP Management Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Laboratories Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Laboratories The Department of Electrical Engineering has the following laboratories for conducting research and academic activities: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Calender Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Calender Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Contact Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Contact Department of Electrical Engineering Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District eMail: office ee at iitj dot ac dot in Phone: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Recruitment Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! F Faculty Members P Post Doctoral Fellows T Technical Staff Members P Project Staff Members Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , , , - : , , , , X , , : : 11 : . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Mechanical Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is devoted to quality engineering education and pursuits the excellence in research. It is dedicated to preparing students to face the emerging challenges faced by society. The vision of the Department is to translate its research and to innovate in pedagogy to enable ignited young minds to find technological solutions for upcoming challenges. The Department offers B. Tech. M. Tech. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Design, and Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence AI , Internet of things IoT , Smart Healthcare, and Cyber-Physical Systems CPS . At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are educated in a way not only to adapt but to define direct change. This is reflected in the portfolio of the current activities of the Department. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas of energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor dynamics, nanomaterials, biomechanics, bio-inspired thermo-fluids, fluid-structure interaction, etc. to name a few. Additionally, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts like smart manufacturing, Industry 4.O, Smart scientific computing techniques, high-performance computing, applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, sensors, and IoT as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring mechanical engineering know-how. Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on experience, the Department intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills. The department has active collaborations with AIIMS Jodhpur, General Electric, Thermax, DRDO, ISRO, TCS Innovation Lab, TVS Motor Company to name a few. The department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R D organizations since its inception. Technology Tracks Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0 Multiscale Manufacturing Processing of Novel Materials Fluid Thermal System Design Multiphase Flows Energy and Sustainability Solid Mechanics and Design Vibration and Acoustics Robotics and Mobility Systems Aerodynamics Various Tracks Mechanical Engineering Building Latest News View all news List of shortlisted candidates for the written test interview for PhD, AY 2025-26 Semester II Jan 2026 The Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, invites applications for the PhD program for the semester commencing in July 2025 Application deadline 26 June 2025 List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and Interview for M.Tech. in Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies Admissions Under Different Categories Highlights View all highlights Thermofluids Engineering The Thermofluids Engineering division focuses on research in fluid dynamics, heat transfer, energy systems, multiphase flow... Mechanical Design The Mechanical Design section focuses on cutting-edge research and development in the following research areas... Manufacturing The Manufacturing section focuses on innovative research and technological advancements in the following research areas... Latest Events View all events Jul AIR 2025 Advances in Robotics 7th International Conference of The Robotics Society Dec ISME International Conference on Recent Advances in Mechanical Engineering Dec RAISE-2024 Recent Advances in Sustainable Energy Dec FMFP-2023 Conference: The 10th International and 50th National Conference Dec The 28th National and 6th International IHMTC-2025 Conference Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Post Doctoral Fellows Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Post Doctoral Fellows The Department of Mechanical Engineering invites applications from young Doctoral Degree holders below the age of 35 years to Post-Doctoral Positions in the Department. The Department of Mechanical Engineering is looking at growing . Interested persons are invited to apply online. Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 11 departments. These are: Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Humanities Social Sciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Technical Staff Members Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Technical Staff Members The Department of Mechanical Engineering has vacancies in regular Staff Members positions at the levels of a Junior Technician, b Technician, c Junior Technical Superintendent, d Technical Superintendent. These Staff Members are expected to work closely with Faculty Members and Students alongside other Staff Members to meet the science and technology objectives of the Institute. Interested persons are invited to apply online. Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 11 departments. These are: Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Humanities Social Sciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Project Staff Members Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Project Staff Members A number of sponsored research projects are being run by Faculty Members of the Department of Mathematics. Technical support is required to effectively meet the technical objectives of the project. Towards this end, temporary positions are available for young scientists and technicians to seek training and engagement with advanced subjects of the ongoing research projects. Interested persons are invited to apply online for these temporary positions: Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 11 departments. These are: Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Humanities Social Sciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

About Research Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! About Research The Department of Mechanical Engineering actively involves in world-class research within three major domains of Thermofluids , Design , and Smart Manufacturing . mapping with faculty member Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Ongoing Projects Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Ongoing Projects Faculty Members are involved in research projects supported by various funding agencies. Some of the prominent ongoing Research Projects include: 1 C. Venkatesan , PI Project: Design and Development of an Indigenous Autopilot for Quadrotors Suril Shah and Arpit Khandelwal, Co-PI Status: Ongoing Description: Main focus of this project is the development of an indigenous autopilot for an aerial vehicle capable of hover. Characterization of brushless motors, development, and testing of control algorithm for stabilization of quadrotors are carried out in the custom-designed test rigs. Programs for autonomous navigation of vehicle in outdoor environment are also developed. The software architecture, hardware selection, and integration, and source code for all tasks are fully developed in the helicopter laboratory. 2 Chandan Pandey , PI Project: Mitigation of weldability issues and residual stresses in dissimilar welded joints of ultra-supercritical power plants Status: Ongoing Description: The present work investigates the weldability, metallurgical and mechanical behavior of the dissimilar martensitic P92 and austenitic Ss304 L steel joints produced by the gas tungsten arc welding process employing the IN617 and IN625 filler metal. 3 Shobhana Singh , PI Project: Heat transfer enhancement in heat exchangers Status: Ongoing Description: Fin and tube heat exchangers are widely used in the industry because of the heat exchanger required for a specific heat transfer load compared to the one with plain fin and therefore decreased material costs for the manufacturer. This project focuses on heat transfer enhancement in heat exchangers by various passive design strategies. These strategies enhancing the flow in a way that turbulence is only created in areas where it is the most beneficial. This is done by utilizing vortex generators or other guide vanes to create longitudinal vortices to the flow. Furthermore, advanced fin patterns or configurations provide considerable heat transfer enhancement with reasonable pressure loss. Project: Development of Controlled Solar Dryer System Status: Ongoing Description: No single dryer technology is appropriate for all users and for all conditions as the performance varies under varied operating conditions. Different types of dryers are utilized for drying different food products fruits, vegetables, grains, etc. under different operating conditions. In this project, an improved solar dryer system is being developed which can be used to dry a variety of products for different applications. In addition to the enhanced drying efficiency, the improved system will have several unique features that make the design highly cost-competitive and entirely environmentally friendly. 4 Hardik Kothadia , PI Project: Performance Testing of Air-Cooled Condenser Tube Bundles along with Establishing Their Theoretical Correlation Status: Ongoing Description: Water shortage was the main obstacle to the construction of the power plants near the arid areas. In these areas, the ACCs air-cooled condensers offer great advantages. ACCs consist of an array of fan units whose function is to condense the steam. A change in the heat rejection rate directly influences the output of the steam turbine. Therefore, it is essential to understand and predict the factors and mechanisms that affect the heat rejection rate of ACCs. Project: Experimental study of pool boiling on conventional, mini and micro tubes Status: Ongoing Description: The magnitude of latent heat of vaporisation of liquid is higher as compared to its specific heat. This become a major factor for implementing two phase heat transfer mechanisms in cooling techniques. Pool boiling is cost effective, simple and prevalent amongst all available two-phase cooling schemes. Scarcity of quantitative data, qualitative theories and explanations in the area of mini and micro tubes makes them an interesting domain of research. Moreover, the conventional tubes have many industrial applications. The study includes derivation of correlations for heat transfer coefficient and critical heat flux. Project: Design of Vortex Flow Generator to Optimize the Heat Transfer Enhancement in a Straight Tube Status: Ongoing Description: Heat exchange is an integral part of all processes in the present era. Improvement in the performance of heat exchanger leads to substantial energy cost savings. The inserts are used as passive enhancement methods which do not require external power. The research objective is to determine the thermal performance of straight tubes with different inserts. Effect of different enhancement methods on wall temperature distribution and spatial variation in heat transfer coefficient is analysed. The best suitable methods with high heat transfer enhancement will be identified from the study. The concept will apply to develop a high-performance heat exchanger. 5 Rahul Chhibber , PI Project: Design and development of SMAW electrode coatings for dissimilar metal welds in USC AUSC applications Status: Ongoing Description: This project aims to develop SMAW electrode coatings to join different steels which are used in the thermal power plant application. Candidate materials used in this study are P22 Ferritic Steel , P91 Martensitic Steel , SS304L Austenitic steel and Inconel-617. Electrode coatings were developed to fabricate P22 P91, P91 SS304 and SS304 IN-617 dissimilar welds. Experimentation was performed to evaluate the microstructural changes and mechanical characterization which includes hardness profile, tensile strength, the impact strength of the base materials, as well as dissimilar welds. Project: High temperature molten salt corrosion investigations on power plant boiler materials and their dissimilar welds. Status: Ongoing Description: This project aims to study the high temperature corrosion behavior of boiler grade steels and alloys under the exposure of aggressive molten salt mixtures. Candidate materials used in this investigation are P22 Ferritic Steel , P91 Martensitic Steel , SS304L Austenitic steel and Inconel-617. The hot corrosion investigations are performed on the base materials as well as P22 P91, P91 SS304 and SS304 IN-617 dissimilar welds. Project: Experimental Investigations on Dissimilar Metal Weld for Offshore Application Status: Ongoing Description: This project aims at fabrication and experimental characterization of dissimilar super duplex stainless steel 2507 high strength low alloy API X70 weld used in hydrocarbon drilling risers and oil-gas pipelines. Welds have been fabricated using SMAW and GTAW processes. Effect of austenitic 309L and super duplex 2594 filler wires has been studied on mechanical and microstructural behavior of fabricated welds. SMAW electrode coatings have been developed and suggested as an alternative to commercially available ones. The sustainable engineering approach has been followed by utilizing iron ore mineral waste red ochre in the electrode coating composition. 6 Nipun Arora , PI Project: Aerodynamic investigation of 3D clap and fling motion with lattice Boltzmann Method Status: Ongoing Description: This study focuses on the analysis of the fluid dynamics associated with the flapping motion employed mostly by tiny insects which operate in low Reynolds number regime. Wing-wake interaction leads to an increase in lift and clap-and-fling produces higher lift as compared to hovering and is therefore used by most small insects such as Drosophila melanogaster. A three-dimensional lattice Boltzmann numerical model mimicking the insect kinematics will be developed to probe the aerodynamics. Project: Experimental Investigation of a Dynamically Scaled Flapping Wing Micro Air Vehicle Status: Ongoing Description: The aim of this project is to study the operational regimes of flapping wing MAV for given planform design through conducting experiments on a dynamically scaled wing in water with different wing kinematics and to identify the optimum flapping parameters. In this regard, the focus will be on improving the aerodynamic performance and efficiency of a flapping wing by quantification of lift and drag with the help of six-axis Force Torque transducer. Other than the wing kinematics, the aerodynamic efficiency of a flapping wing MAV can be increased by improvements in wing design and or decreasing its weight by using lightweight materials. Project: Computational hemodynamics and rheological models for blood flow Status: Ongoing Description: Cerebro- and cardio-vascular diseases remain the leading cause of mortality in the world and are linked to hemodynamics. CFD simulations using medical image based geometries have a huge potential as a tool for diagnosis and treatment. This work aims to present different models used in lattice Boltzmann Method to model blood as a viscoelastic Non-Newtonian fluid to understand the complex rheological nature of blood upon the dynamics of cerebral and cardiovascular diseases. Project: Development of lattice Boltzmann solver to study electrorheolgical fluids Status: On-going Description: ER fluids are complex particle-laden flows whose rheology is strongly influenced by the presence of an electric or magnetic field. The viscosity of smart fluids increases by an order of and restored back within milliseconds and has applications in mechanical devices valves, dampers, brakes, etc. , the biomedical sector reduction in blood viscosity, blood clotting, etc. . A fully parallel particle fluid interaction numerical framework comprising of combined discrete element - lattice Boltzmann method DEM-LBM will be developed to examine the electrorheological ER behavior. Project: Aerodynamic noise reduction of a flapping wing unmanned aerial vehicle Status: Proposed Description: Noiseless locomotion is a prerequisite of unmanned aerial vehicles, especially when spying in enemy terrains and not significant attention has been paid on this aspect. Owls have distinctive wing morphologies that enable an inaudible flapping flight and can be a guiding principle for designing the next-generation UAVs. An in-house numerical flow solver based on the entropic lattice Boltzmann method ELBM will be developed to perform the turbulence simulations and examine the aerodynamics of owl flight. The noise generation due to flapping can be measured with the help of aeroacoustics solver based on the Ffowcs-Williams-Hawkings FWH equation. 7 Jaiveer Singh , PI Project: Design and development of novel BCC and FCC high entropy alloys HEAs for structural high-temperature applications Status: Proposed Description: This project aims to develop novel BCC and FCC high entropy alloys HEAs for structural high-temperature applications such as airborne parts, turbine engine blades, shipbuilding, etc. HEAs will be developed using a vacuum induction casting technique. The homogenized and subsequently cold-rolled specimens will be used for the evolution of microstructure and recrystallization kinetics during thermo-mechanical processing of developed HEAs. Electron back-scattered diffraction EBSD , scanning electron microscopy SEM combined with the energy dispersive spectroscopy EDS mode of electron probe microanalysis EPMA , and X-ray diffraction XRD will be used for the microstructural and textural characterization. Project: Investigation of the process-induced residual stresses during machining of Tungsten and its alloys Kaushal A. Desai and Rajesh K. Khatirkar, Co-PI Status: Proposed Description: The objective of this project is to relate stress development and relief with local microstructural changes associated with the manufacturing process. The study also aims to develop an appropriate multi-scale evaluation method linking residual stress RS acting at the macroscopic scale, with an underlying microstructure where RS originate. Moreover, the optimization of processing parameters during the manufacturing process such as turning operation under dry and wet lubrication conditions to provide a better surface finish which will attribute to low or compressive RS and high material removal rate MRR . In this proposed project, Taguchi's method will be applied to determine optimal parametric combinations and to investigate the influence of various turning parameters such as cutting speed, feed rate, and depth of cut on surface roughness Ra and MRR to achieve better machining performance. 8 Arun Kumar R , PI Project: Shock Wave Interaction with Various Interfaces Status: Ongoing Description: Shock or blast waves are high intense pressure waves generated due to large deposition of energy over a finite space, like in an explosion. In recent times, shock waves were utilized for many constructive applications especially in biomedical engineering, like the needles vaccine delivery, shock wave lithotripsy, and wound healing. In all these applications a controlled shock wave propagating through air or body fluid is made to interact with the tissues, resulting in shock wave interaction with interfaces separated by two mediums. The interaction of shock wave with interface causes subsequent reflection and refraction of the wave leading to localized pressure jump and complex shock patterns which are not yet properly understood. The present study thus focuses on the shock wave interaction characteristics with interfaces produced by various mediums using experimental studies. Project: Cross Flow Flapping Jets for Supersonic Mixing Enhancement Status: Ongoing Description: This research aims to advance the frontiers of supersonic air-fuel mixing, particularly in the context of cross flow injection. The present study explores novel methods to enhance the efficiency of cross flow injection, particularly by inducing the cross flow jet to flap. A flapping cross flow jet is expected to increase the cross flow momentum and turbulence which enhances the mixing characteristics. In the present study, various active and passive control strategies will be investigated to create flapping cross flow jets. A detailed investigation of various flow characteristics, such as, turbulence production, vortex structure and shock interactions etc. are also planned to be carried out using experimental and computational studies. 9 Sudipto Mukhopadhyay , PI Project: Development of Highly Efficient Low Cost Insulation for Power Plants Status: Ongoing Description: Thermal Insulation serves a crucial role in power plant industry. The aim of this project is to find out effectiveness of various thermal insulation materials as installed on gas turbines. The project also aims to fabricate a cost effective yet efficient insulation material. 10 Prodyut Chakraborty , PI Project: Cascaded Latent Heat Storage CLHS for high temperature CSP applications: material development and characterization to lab-scale setup Status: Ongoing Description: The design of latent heat-based thermal storage is one of the less developed areas and has a huge potential for high temperature solar thermal applications. Very few existing solar thermal plants in the world have the testing facility for thermal storage systems, and the existence of testing facilities with latent heat storage systems is even fewer. The design of latent heat-based thermal storage aims at achieving stringent heat transfer requirements with optimal compactness and reliability. Cascaded latent heat storage CLHS is one of the best possible ways of storing thermal energy in the latent heat form allowing minimum consumption of storage material. Project: Shrinkage induce flow and shrinkage defect evolving during solidification of pure substance Status: Ongoing Description: Although shrinkage during solidification is fundamental phenomena, Analytical and numerical models associated with the physics is underdeveloped till date. The project aims at developing physics-based analytical and numerical models to capture the effect of shrinkage on casting products during the solidification process of pure and alloy materials. Project: Thermal modeling of PCM cool vest and warm jacket Status: Completed Description: The extreme climate can vary core body temperatures 37 0C beyond a normal band of 10C. This variation can result in life-threatening consequences. The phase change material PCM based cool warm vests can provide thermal comfort to persons working in extreme hot cold climate respectively. The project aims at the design and development of warm and cool vests consisting of warm or cool PCM packs optimally located within the vest, along with the development of thermal manikin. The major challenge is developing a multi-scale model for the solidification of undercooled PCM covering nucleation to dendritic growth to macro-scale solidification features. Project: Parabolic dish solar cooker- An alternative design approach towards achieving high grade thermal energy storage solution Status: Ongoing Description: Parabolic dish concentrator based solar cooker is a highly promising alternative green technology suitable for a wide variety of cooking involving grilling, frying, simmering and boiling temperature range of 250-350 . The utilization of solar energy reduces dependence on fossil fuels, resulting lower carbon footprints. Development and integration of a compact thermal storage cum cooking unit involving latent heat thermal energy storage LHTES plays a crucial role to overcome the severe limitation associated with the duration and availability of solar irradiation. The project aims at design and development of a market ready solar cooker capable of cooking not only during on-sun hours but also during off-sun period. 11 Anand Plappally, PI Project: Local composite geo-textile mats for soil and water conservation in Western Rajasthan Status: Completed Description: In this study the geotextile mats of different size specifications were manufactured from ropes derived of different shrubs locally found in Thar Desert. Further specifically, strength parameters for Crotalaria Burhia are vetted against the other local natural and inorganic synthetic fibres used for similar purposes such as Leptadenia Pyrotechnica and Calotropis Procera. It is implicated from the study that Crotalaria Burhia is better and more viable for rope, rooftop cover and mat production. Project: Run-of-River based Water Wheel at Kelia Village, Junagarh, Kalahandi, Odisha Status: Completed Description: In this project, a water wheel is designed and installed over an irrigation canal flowing through Kelia Village, Junagarh, at Kalahandi, Odisha. The installation is appended with a complete gear box and centrifugal turbo-pump of 3hp to lift water from the downstream of the canal. A one and half year operation and maintenance study is also performed. Civil engineering construction of the run-of-river model was also performed. Project: Truncated Unglazed Percolative Clay Ceramic Ware as a Modified Pitcher Irrigation System Status: Completed Description: In this project, a new modification to traditional sub-surface irrigation to enable faster rate of saline soil remediation was performed. This is a new form of subsurface porous vessel-based irrigation technology where leaching is optimized in order to enable plant to grow in conditions of high saline soils. Project: AWEP Management Through ICT Status: Completed Description: In this project, a micro-irrigation of okra and eggplant was performed using a bed-planting strategy of farming. An automated irrigation system was developed and showcased. New low-cost automation box with wireless protocols were developed using SMS based farm management tactics. Water and energy management in agriculture using automation and agricultural landscape modification was practicalized. Tablet-based personalized farmer information on farm management and weather was also illustrated. 12 Shrutidhara Sarma , PI Project: Nanocomposite fibers for sensing purposes Status: Proposed Description: Developing low powered, flexible temperature sensor having high sensitivity and low response time still remains a challenge. Compatible fillers in appropriate concentration within a polymer matrix can bring significant changes in sensors performance. Carbon nanotubes CNTs have exceptional mechanical strength, abrasion resistance, thermal and electrical properties although their homogenous dispersion is strenuous due to its non-reactant nature. This project aims at deeper study on CNT-polymer compatibility and their dispersion to produce highly conducting nanocomposite fibers that could be used for fabrication of efficient flexible temperature sensors. 13 Amrita Puri , PI Project: Active control of noise in vibro-acoustic cavities Status: Ongoing Description: In active noise control ANC , secondary noise field is generated by ANC controller such that interference of primary and secondary noise field creates desired sound field. In local ANC, noise at some particular locations is attempted to reduce whereas in global ANC, noise levels throughout the cavity is attempted to reduce. The aim of this project is to develop the efficient active and adaptive algorithms for local and global ANC in vibro-acoustic cavities and its implementation for various practical applications like automotive cabins etc. 14 Ankur Gupta , PI Project: In-house Development of Pulse -electroforming Set-up to Fabricate High Surface Area Multiscale Structures Status: Ongoing Description: In this project, we aim to design and develop pulse electroforming experimental set-up. With this set-up, fabrication of high aspect ratio structures will be performed. Further, various functional metal metal oxide high aspect micro nano-structures with aqueous chemical synthesis route over electroform will also fabricated along with studies related to essential properties of fabricated structures with the help of various characterization techniques. Project: Design and development of true north finding set-up for defense applications Status: Ongoing Description: Measure of performance for a state-of-the-art radar system participating in critical tactical missile defense mission is very crucial from the accuracy perspective of the mission requirements. True north plays an important role in radar performance as target azimuth data is provided with reference to true north. So, this work proposes design and development of the In-house set-up for determining the true north for radar application, the measured data with the setup will be analyzed with the help of developed algorithm to determine the accurate true north angle. The proposed set-up will be capable to produce the results with high accuracy in mili-radian level. Project: Microfabrication assisted multi-step treatment and analysis of textile and antimicrobial manufacturing wastewater Status: Ongoing Description: With this project, we aim to offer solution to handle the environmental contamination particularly related to antimicrobial textile waste obtained from pharmaceutical textile industries with the help of electrochemical and nanotechnology-based mechanism in single in-house set-up unit equipped with monitoring sensors. This work includes: Design and fabrication of electrochemical processing set-up and filtration set-up having functional nanostructured platform for photocatalytic based degradation; Optimization of design parameters by modeling the fluid dynamics, its simulation and computational studies on absorption kinetics; Experimental investigation for the efficiency of the unit and performance evaluation for real water samples; Implementation of automation for assessing the quality of the treated sample and build whole system ready for a pilot plant to be used for industries. 15 Suril V. Shah , PI Project: Dynamic studies for Half-humanoid Space flying robot Status: Ongoing Description: The autonomous operations with robotic systems are an essential component of space exploration missions. The Extravehicular activity EVA consumes time and requires a considerable load handling capacity and dexterity exceeding human capability. Realizing the benefits of space robots involves the challenging problem of dynamics, control and motion planning by considering the dynamic interaction between the robotic manipulator and the base space station, space shuttle, or satellite . Due to the dynamic interaction, the motion of robotic manipulator alters the base trajectory in accordance with the conservation of linear and angular momenta. This mutual dependence severely affects the autonomous operations as well as the performance of both the robot arm and the base, especially when the mass and the moment of inertia of the robot arms are not negligible in comparison to the base. Also, in floating base robots, the kinematic mapping between joint space and inertial space depends on the dynamic parameters, such as mass and inertia. The robot manipulation using the combination of kinematics, dynamics and control to achieve the desired functionality is a major challenge. The energy-efficient path planning, dexterous manipulation and dynamic modeling for environmental interaction of half humanoid and space flying robot will be addressed. Project: Reactionless Maneuvering and Visual Servoing of Space flying robot and Half-humanoid Status: Ongoing Description: Future Space exploration missions evinces zero gravity as a major challenge for autonomous operations. In space environment, the motion of robotic manipulator mounted on a satellite base induces reactions on base due to dynamic coupling. The stationary attitude is desirable for uninterrupted communication and manipulation accuracy. The base attitude correction has been achieved with external motors but consumes high power. The energy efficient functioning of space robot requires new strategies for motion planning as manipulation without the use of attitude controllers is more robust. Researchers have focused on robotic manipulation with zero or minimal change in attitude, which is termed reactionless manipulation. Reactionless manipulation of a robot mounted on a satellite results in the fuel savings and increases the operating life of the system. On the other hand, visual servoing for autonomous operations has also attracted the attention of research community mainly due to its advantages over conventional control through teleportation. The literature work reported on visual servoing of a robot for autonomous operations assume that either the base is free-floating without any attitude control or base has active attitude control and such approach results in additional fuel consumption. The combination of reactionless manipulation and visual servoing can provide benefit of both, i.e., reduced fuel consumption and robust control. Such an approach, however, is seldom reported in literature for multi-arm robot. The reactionless manipulation and visual servoing with stringent requirement is a challenging task. The nano-satellite class 30 cm3 robot affects the path planning strategies and hence requires the specific design and development plan. This motivates to investigate reactionless manipulation and visual servoing of multi-arm space flying robot and half-humanoid. The work focuses on simulation studies and validation of the strategies on earth-based setup and integration to the future space missions. 16 B. Ravindra , PI Project: Energy harvesting for Tire pressure monitoring sensors and other allied applications Status: Ongoing Description: Energy harvesting to power sensors is important in a number of applications. This project involves in powering Tire pressure monitoring sensors using vibrational energy. Material selection for vibration harvesters is an important aspect. Both soft and hard PZTs are considered. A lumped parameter model is used for PZT and support structure interaction. The design constraints such as space and packaging issues are taken into account. The limitations of lumped parameter models is also considered. Figures of merit for evaluating performance of PZT harvesters are also discussed. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Completed Projects Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Completed Projects Faculty Members of the Department have completed the following Sponsored Research Projects: 1. Bifurcation and Stability Assessment of a Highly Lightweight Rotor-Bearing System with Moving Platform Science and Engineering Research Board, DST, Government of India Barun Pratiher, PI . Hybrid reactionless manipulationand visual serving of a satellite mounted robot for autonomus on orbit services Department of Science Technology DST , Government of India Suril Shah, PI . Singularity free reactionless manipulation of a satellite mounted dual-arm robot for capture of tumbling orbiting object Department of Science Technology DST , Government of India Suril Shah, PI . IOCL-BHEL-IITJ CSP Plant Indian Oil Corporation Limited Laltu Chandra, PI . Establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education Ministry of New Renewable Energy, Government of India Laltu Chandra, PI 2011-16 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Collaborations Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Collaborations Faculty Members of the Department of Mechanical Engineering are keen to collaborate with individuals from academia, R D laboratories and industry in India and abroad, in areas of mutual interest. These collaboration could include: Teaching of courses, Organizing short courses, Authoring of books, Undertaking research, Developing technologies. Some of the current engagements are Industry and R D Ansys DRDO ISRO National Aerospace Laboratory Tata Steel Thermax Academia Aalborg University AAU , Denmark Sunchon National University, Korea Technion, Israel Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Undergraduate Program Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Undergraduate Program Department Vision Reckoned as one of the most versatile engineering disciplines, Mechanical Engineering virtually touches every aspect of modern life, from mobile phones and biomedical devices to aircrafts and power plants. It is concerned with technological advancements through the development of products, processes, and power, at scales ranging from nano-scale to large and complex systems. Mechanical Engineering principles and skills are involved at some stage during the conception, design, development, and manufacture of every human-made object. While design and manufacturing involve the design of mechanisms and the analysis of materials, thermo-fluid systems include methods of energy conversions, heat transfer, and fluid flow. Future innovations crucial to the countrys growth will always have their roots in the world of mass, motion, forces, and energy- the world of mechanical engineers. At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are therefore trained, educated, and positioned, in a way not only to adapt but to define direct change. This is reflected in the portfolio of current activities of the department. Our faculty are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas of Energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor dynamics, micro-nano materials and applications, biomechanics, bio-inspired thermofluids, fluid structure interaction, etc. to name a few. Additionally, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts like smart manufacturing, Industry 4.O, applications of artificial intelligence AI , machine learning algorithms, sensors, and IoT as a part of solving mechanical engineering problems. Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on experience, the department intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills. The department currently offers B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering. A wide range of specialization related courses is currently offered. Students also undergo B.Tech projects from the second year onwards to develop analytical skills and gain hands-on experience. Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on experience, the department intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills. The curriculum offers flexibility to students for pursuing capability-linked specializations of their choice, namely, Micro-Nano Engineering, Energy Engineering, Design Engineering, Smart Manufacturing. UG program image Programs The salient features of different UG programs run by the Department of Mechanical Engineering are as follows: Regular B.Tech. Duration: 4 years Emphasis on core mechanical subjects. Last semester dedicated to industrial training and projects. Possibility of engineering science students to choose mechanical stream as their specialization. B.Tech. with specialization Duration: 4 years Department Specialization: Micro nano-engineering, Energy engineering, Design engineering, Smart manufacturing. Interdisciplinary: Entrepreneurship or management, Smart healthcare, Artificial intelligence, Robotics, and mobility systems. B.Tech. - M.Tech. Program Duration: 5 years Double degree aligned to specialization or minor area. Possibility of obtaining B.Tech and M.Tech double degree within 5 years of induction to the program UG program image Key Objectives Enabling students to have a fundamental understanding of the core concepts of Mechanical Engineering Developing analytical and computational ability with experimental skills to create individuals competent in professional engineering practices Stimulating critical thinking towards the application of mechanical engineering concepts in interdisciplinary problem solving Fostering students to advanced concepts like AI ML, Industry 4.0, and IoT for product and system design Inculcating an attitude towards the commitment to engineering ethics, leadership qualities, and professional development. New Skillsets Targeted Multi- and interdisciplinary approach Computer-aided design modeling software additive and smart manufacturing Latest industrial pursuits in the areas of automation, robotics, and smart scientific computing, microfluidics, hybrid and electric automotive vehicles Design and experimental validation of computational designs in the fields of alternative energies Advanced materials selection techniques Advanced mechanical testing and characterization techniques Familiarity with advanced and futuristic scientific computing techniques Graduate Attributes Graduates of the B.Tech program in Mechanical Engineering will have: Strong understanding of fundamentals of Thermofluids, Mechanical Design, and Manufacturing Processes and Systems Ability to apply mechanical engineering principles to address challenges in real-life problems through creative interdisciplinary thinking Ability to use different simulation and computational tools for a better understanding and designing of mechanical processes systems Capability to appreciate the use of some of the advanced concepts like AI ML, Robotics, Industry 4.0, IoT in Mechanical Engineering applications Awareness of grassroots problems of the society and the ability to provide technological solutions of sustainable nature. 6. Entrepreneurial spirit to undertake disruptive innovations Skills to communicate engineering concepts and ideas to peers in written or oral forms Commitment to professional ethics and have humanitarian engineering skills. Learning Outcomes The graduates of the B.Tech. program in Mechanical Engineering will: Gain a strong understanding of mathematics, science, and engineering fundamentals of mechanical engineering Be able to design and conduct experiments as well as to analyze and interpret data Be introduced to concepts including engineering design optimization sensors fabrication computational methods simulation tools thermal systems refrigeration heat transfer fluid flows nanomaterials AI IoT Smart Computing for various applications Have the ability to design a mechanical system, component, or process tailored to meet desired needs under socio-economic and environmental constraints Be exposed to common problems that are prevalent in the domains of energy storage, systems and devices, clean energy, and nano-materials, futuristic technology, and advanced scientific computation methods, allowing them to innovate and develop technological solutions for the same Receive effective, hands-on laboratory training as a part of laboratory courses and short-term research projects Develop their communication skills by participating in classroom presentations, seminars, and workshops on manuscript patent writing presentation skills Highlights Click here to download details of the UG program. Download file Click here to download the latest UG brochure. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Postgraduate Program Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Postgraduate Program M.Tech The department currently offers M.Tech in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Advanced Manufacturing Design and Thermofluids Engineering. A wide range of specialization related courses is currently offered. There are four modes of admission in M.Tech Program: Regular with fellowship Industry-Sponsored Self-Sponsored Part-Time The salient features of specializations. Download file : 380 KB The details of eligibility can be accessed here. M.Tech students getting admission in regular mode are provided with an assistantship of Rs. 12400 per month as per the MHRD rules. Guidelines and Format for Submission of Project Report for M.Tech. Students Download file 211 KB Link for online Application for M.Tech. Program Self-Sponsored in Mechanical Engineering Detailed Advertisement for M.Tech program Self-sponsored in Mechanical Engineering Brochure for M.Tech program Self-sponsored in Mechanical Engineering Download file 355 KB List of shortlisted candidates for M.Tech Admission test Self-Sponsored in Thermofluids TFE List of shortlisted candidates for M.Tech Admission test Self-Sponsored in Advanced Manufacturing and Design AMD Syllabus for written test for M.Tech Admission test Self-Sponsored in Thermofluids TFE Syllabus for written test for M.Tech Admission test Self-Sponsored in Advanced Manufacturing and Design AMD Reporting details for M.Tech Admission test Self-Sponsored in Thermofluids TFE Reporting details for M.Tech Admission test Self-Sponsored in Advanced Manufacturing and Design AMD List of selected candidates for M.Tech in Thermofluids Engineering TFE List of selected candidates for M.Tech in Advanced Manufacturing and Design AMD M.Tech-PhD Dual Degree The department currently offers an M.Tech-PhD dual degree in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Advanced Manufacturing and Thermofluids. A wide range of specialization related courses is currently offered. Specialization: Mechanical Design Thermofluids Advanced Manufacturing The department offers M. Tech-PhD dual course in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Mechanical Design, and Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence AI , Data and Computational Science, Smart Healthcare, Energy Materials, and Cyber-Physical Systems CPS . Click here for the salient features of specializations. Download file The expected duration for the award of Ph.D. degree in this program is 5 years. Admitted students are paid the monthly assistantship the same as that of Ph.D. scholars from the first day. The current assistantship is Rs 31000 per month as per the MHRD rules. List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Examination for M.Tech-Ph.D. Admissions for AY 2024-25 Semester 1 July 2024 Download file Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Doctorial Program Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Doctorial Program The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic and human resource development. The Department is committed to high-quality research by Faculty Members and Students in the pursuit of excellence in academics. The department offers a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Design, and Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence AI , Data and Computational Science, Smart Healthcare, Energy Materials, and Cyber-Physical Systems CPS . The fellowship for Ph.D. scholars is: Mode Fellowship Ph.D. Full Time As per MHRD Rules Ph.D. Part-Time Sponsored No Fellowship The students enrolled in the Ph.D. program will receive a fellowship from the starting date of course. A student shall be formally registered admitted to the candidacy of Ph. D. degree only after he she has cleared the comprehensive examination as per the Institute norms. Link for webpage of Faculty Members Applications are invited for Ph.D program in Mechanical Engineering Department January, 2025 The Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur invites applications for the PhD program for the semester commencing in January 2025. The Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur hosts PhD programs under three major domains namely; Thermofluids, Design, and Advanced Manufacturing with Exposure in emerging areas such as Smart manufacturing, Additive manufacturing, Ultra-precision finishing, Welding, Artificial Intelligence and machine learning, Smart Healthcare, Nano-sensors, Multi-phase flows, Fluid-structure interactions, High speed flows, Hydrogen energy, Gas turbines, Vibration and acoustics, Robotics and automation, Computational solid and fracture mechanics. The following link can be used to submit the online application form: Apply here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Curriculum Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Curriculum The Department of Mechanical Engineering offers five-degree programs, namely: B.Tech. ME Program B.Tech. - M.Tech ME 5 years M.Tech Thermofluids Engineering Program M.Tech Advanced Manufacturing and Design Program M.Tech-PhD Dual degree in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Advanced Manufacturing M.Tech-PhD Dual degree in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Thermofluids M.Tech-PhD Dual degree in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Design Engineering Ph.D. Program in Mechanical Engineering The curricula of these programs are: 1 Curriculum of the B.Tech. ME Program, Download file i Before 2019 ii After 2019 a First year B.Tech course applicable from 2019 b Proposed Transition Plan for B.Tech. Batches: 2016, 2017 and 2018 Download file c Second Year B.Tech curriculum from August 2020 onwards Download file Download file target blank d Old transition plan 2 Curriculum of the M.Tech. ME Program, Download file i Before 2019 Download file ii After 2019 a M.Tech Advanced Manufacturing and Design Download file b M.Tech Thermofluids Engineering Download file 3 Curriculum of the M.Tech-PhD Dual Program in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Thermofluids Download file 4 Curriculum of the M.Tech-PhD Dual Program in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Design Download file 5 Curriculum of the M.Tech-PhD Dual Program in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Advanced Manufacturing Download file 6 Curriculum of the Ph.D. Program in Mechanical Engineering Download file Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Courses Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Courses 1 B.Tech. ME The courses of B.Tech ME Program are grouped into the following sets: Hands-on Exploration, Basics, Compulsory, Electives, and Life skills. The courses offered by the Department of Mechanical Energy can be accessed here: Before 2019 Download file After 2019 2 B.Tech. - M.Tech ME 5 years 3 M. Tech. ME The courses of M.Tech. ME Program offered by the Department of Mechanical Engineering can be accessed here: Before 2019 After 2019 4 M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual ME The courses of M.Tech. ME Program offered by the Department of Mechanical Engineering can be accessed here: Before 2019 After 2019 5 Ph.D. Program in Mechanical Engineering The courses of Ph.D. ME Program are all electives. Download the contents of all the elective courses offered by the Department of Mechanical Engineering Before 2019 Download file After 2019 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Program Structure Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Program Structure 1 Bachelor of Technology Programs B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering 2 Master of Technology Programs M.Tech. Advanced Manufacturing and Design M.Tech. Thermofluids Engineering 3 Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Programs M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Design Engineering M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Advanced Manufacturing and Design M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Thermofluids Engineering 4 Doctor of Philosophy Programs Engineering Sciences Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Regulations Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Regulations The Regulations governing the B.Tech. ME , M.Tech. ME , M.Tech-PhD Dual and Ph.D. ME Programs hosted by the Department of Mechanical Engineering as approved by the Senate of the Institute are presented below: a Regulations for B.Tech ME Program Before 2019 Download file After 2019 Download file b Regulations for M.Tech ME Program Before 2019 Download file After 2019 Download file c Regulations for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Programs Download file d Regulation for Ph.D. Program Before 2019 Download file After 2019 Download file Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Laboratories Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Laboratories A number of laboratories have already been set up to carry out teaching and research. A state-of-the-art workshop facility with CNC milling, CNC turning machines, 3D printers fused deposition modelling , welding and heat treatment facilities is already developed. Advanced flow measurement instruments such as Laser Doppler velocimetry, Hotwire anemometry, educational PIV, instrumented heat exchangers, solar radiation measurement station, solar flat plate collector, metallurgical microscopes, polishing machines, vibration shakers and machinery fault monitoring systems, universal testing machines, CAD software such as CATIA, Solid Works, Pro-E, and ANSYS also are available. Controls, robotics and gait analysis labs can also be used jointly with the electrical engineering department . The students shall also have an opportunity to work with the high-performance computing facility. The following laboratories are used for teaching and research purposes S.No. Manufacturing Laboratory Faculty-in-charge Users 1. Advanced Manufacturing Dr. Kaushal A Desai 2. Central Workshop Dr. Kaushal A Desai, Dr. Rahul Chhibber 3. Industrial Engineering Lab Dr. Rahul Chhibber 4. Metrology Lab Dr. Kaushal A Desai S.No. Manufacturing Design Laboratory Faculty-in-charge Users 1. Dynamics Of Machine Lab Dr. B Ravindra, Dr. Amrita Puri 2. Helicopter Lab Dr. C Venkatesan 3. Mechatronics Lab Dr. B Ravindra 4. Robotics Lab Dr. Suril Shah 5. Vibration Lab Dr. Barun Pratiher S.No. Thermofluids Laboratory Faculty-in-charge Users 1. Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery Dr. Prodyut Chakraborty, Dr. Arun Kumar 2. Heat Transfer Dr. Hardik Kothadia, Dr. Shobhana Singh 3. Energy Conversion Dr. Hardik Kothadia, Dr. Shobhana Singh 4. Automotive Propulsion Dr. Sudipto Mukhopadhyay 5. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Dr. Nipun Arora, Dr. Anand Plapally 6. Optical Diagnostics and Imaging Laboratory Dr. Sudipto Mukhopadhyay Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Contact Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Contact Office of Mechanical Engineering Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District eMail: Phone: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Recruitment Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! F Faculty Members P Post Doctoral Fellows T Technical Staff Members P Project Staff Members Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Mechanical Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is devoted to quality engineering education and pursuits the excellence in research. It is dedicated to preparing students to face the emerging challenges faced by society. The vision of the Department is to translate its research and to innovate in pedagogy to enable ignited young minds to find technological solutions for upcoming challenges. The Department offers B. Tech. M. Tech. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Design, and Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence AI , Internet of things IoT , Smart Healthcare, and Cyber-Physical Systems CPS . At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are educated in a way not only to adapt but to define direct change. This is reflected in the portfolio of the current activities of the Department. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas of energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor dynamics, nanomaterials, biomechanics, bio-inspired thermo-fluids, fluid-structure interaction, etc. to name a few. Additionally, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts like smart manufacturing, Industry 4.O, Smart scientific computing techniques, high-performance computing, applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, sensors, and IoT as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring mechanical engineering know-how. Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on experience, the Department intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills. The department has active collaborations with AIIMS Jodhpur, General Electric, Thermax, DRDO, ISRO, TCS Innovation Lab, TVS Motor Company to name a few. The department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R D organizations since its inception. Technology Tracks Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0 Multiscale Manufacturing Processing of Novel Materials Fluid Thermal System Design Multiphase Flows Energy and Sustainability Solid Mechanics and Design Vibration and Acoustics Robotics and Mobility Systems Aerodynamics Various Tracks Mechanical Engineering Building Latest News View all news List of shortlisted candidates for the written test interview for PhD, AY 2025-26 Semester II Jan 2026 The Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, invites applications for the PhD program for the semester commencing in July 2025 Application deadline 26 June 2025 List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and Interview for M.Tech. in Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies Admissions Under Different Categories Highlights View all highlights Thermofluids Engineering The Thermofluids Engineering division focuses on research in fluid dynamics, heat transfer, energy systems, multiphase flow... Mechanical Design The Mechanical Design section focuses on cutting-edge research and development in the following research areas... Manufacturing The Manufacturing section focuses on innovative research and technological advancements in the following research areas... Latest Events View all events Jul AIR 2025 Advances in Robotics 7th International Conference of The Robotics Society Dec ISME International Conference on Recent Advances in Mechanical Engineering Dec RAISE-2024 Recent Advances in Sustainable Energy Dec FMFP-2023 Conference: The 10th International and 50th National Conference Dec The 28th National and 6th International IHMTC-2025 Conference Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , - , : , , , , , , , , 4 .. , : Apply here . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Mathematics Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and creates new theories to solve real-world challenging problems. Our department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods to model such situations that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering, and basic sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Algebra, Mathematical Physics, Scientific Computation, Numerical Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Reliability Theory, Applied Probability. We are excited to offer high-quality programs at postgraduate level for students who wish to apply math to science or engineering such as a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences. We also offer an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational Sciences and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics to those who wish to earn a deeper understanding of pure and applied Mathematics. Workshop on LEAN List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II of th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO -2025 From the Head of the Department Welcome to the Department of Mathematics!! The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to advancing the fields of pure mathematics, applied mathematics and statistics. Our vision is to emphasize both the fundamental principles of core mathematics and the foundational concepts essential for analyzing key principles applied in cutting-edge technologies. Since its establishment, the department has been actively engaged in research across various critical areas of mathematics and computing. The department also aimed to explore modern aspects of mathematics coupled with computational capabilities to develop a workforce specialized in mathematical aspects of key technologies. With this inclination, the department initiated academic programs to address the mathematical needs of both industry and academia. Currently, we offer various programmes, namely, a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences.... Read More: Head Message Latest Events View all Events Feb Research seminar by Dr Abhishek Kumar Singh on Feb 23, 2026 Jan Invited talk by Prof. Basant Lal Sharma on 27 January 2026 at 12PM Jan PhD Thesis Defense of Ms. Sushmita Yadav on 15 January 2026 at 03:00 PM Announcement View all announcement 1 Ph.D. Admission Results Semester-II, AY Merit List of Provisionally Shortlisted Candidates for Ph.D. Admission... 3 List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II.... Latest News View all news Workshop on LEAN The Department of Mathematics is organizing an introductoryworkshop on the Lean proof assistant from 26th to 28th February. 5th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO- th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO-2025 AFS-I - Annual Foundation School - I 2024 IIT Jodhpur AFS-I - Annual Foundation School - I 2024 IIT Jodhpur Highlights View all Highlights Nonlinear coupled-mode framework for coupled systems: From exact Hamiltonian models to improved reduced-order formulations General Casorati inequalities and implications for Riemannian maps and Riemannian submersions Congratulation to Dr Kiran Meena for Published of research paper Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Post Doctoral Fellows Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Post Doctoral Fellows The Department of Mathematics invites applications from young Doctoral Degree holders below the age of 35 years to Post-Doctoral Positions in the Department. The Department of Mathematics is looking at growing in the area of mathematics, statistics, and also in new emerging areas such as data and computational sciences. Interested persons can apply Apply here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Technical Staff Members Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Technical Staff Members The Department of Mathematics has vacancies in regular Staff Members positions at the levels of a Junior Technical Assistant, b Senior Technical Assistant, c Junior Technical Superintendent, d Technical Superintendent. These Staff Members are expected to work closely with Faculty Members and Students alongside other Staff Members to meet the science and technology objectives of the Institute. Interested persons can apply Apply here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Project Staff Members Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Project Staff Members A number of sponsored research projects are being run by Faculty Members of the Department of Mathematics. Technical support is required to effectively meet the technical objectives of the project. Towards this end, temporary positions are available for young scientists and technicians to seek training and engagement with advanced subjects of the ongoing research projects. Interested persons can apply Apply here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Ongoing Projects Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Ongoing Projects S.No. Title Funded By PI Duration 1. Theoretical Development of Differential Attacks on Block Ciphers and Its Counter-Measures SRG, SERB Dr. Bimal Mandal . Design and Development of A Software Platform to Create Immersive Content from Digitized and Born Digital Documents iHub Drishti Foundation Dr.Gaurav Bhatnagar . Development of Concealed Object Detection and Recognition System iHub Drishti Foundation Dr.Gaurav Bhatnagar . Hybrid Methods for Multi-objective Optimization Problems Combining Genetic Algorithms with Gradient Based Techniques IIT Jodhpur SEED Grant Dr. Md Abu Talhamainuddin Ansary . Hardware Aware Frame-Theoretic Sparse Neural Network for Resource-constrained Platform IITSERB-SRG Dr. Pradip Sasmal . Study of quantum attacks on block and stream ciphers and its counter-measures CAIR, DRDO Dr. Bimal Mandal . Computations in Wreath Product SERB MATRICS Dr. Dilpreet Kaur . Dynamics of Non-Autonomous Schmidt Games NBHM Dr. Puneet Sharma . Applications of Lie group analysis and topological methods to solve complex flow problems I.R.M.G. IITJ Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh . Local and non local phase transition problems with nonlinear boundary conditions CSIR-HRDG Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee . Renormalization of multimodal maps with low smoothness SERB, MATRICS Dr.V. V. M. S. Chandramouli . Some important problems on information measures SERB Dr.Nil Kamal Hazra . Mathematical modelling of infectious diseases using surfactant dynamics SERB-DST Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh . Density function for some invariants in prime characteristic and Hilbert-Kunz density function for Schubert Varietie DST-INSPIRE Dr. Mandira Mandal Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Completed Projects Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Completed Projects Faculty Members of the Department have completed the following Sponsored Research Projects: S.No. Title Funded By PI Duration 1. Nonlocal variational problems with Dirichlet-Neumann mixed boundary conditions SERB-DST Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee . Mathematical framework of secondary and nonlinear instabilities for complex flow systems SERB Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh . Towards more realistic delta-shock models and their applications SERB Dr.Nil Kamal Hazra . Spectral Methods for derivative dependent integral equations and integro-differential equations. NBHM Dr.Moumita Mandal . Eigenvalue type problems related to linear and quasi-linear operators. DST-INSPIRE Dr. Abhishek Sarkar . On Graph Induced Symbolic Dynamics DST Dr. Puneet Sharma . Essential dimension and the least degree of faithful representation of a group I.R.M.G. IITJ Dr. Dilpreet Kaur . Superconvergence results for integro-differential initial and boundary value problems by spectral projection methods I.R.M.G. IITJ Dr. Moumita Mandal . Automorphism Groups of Induced Symbolic Systems NBHM Dr. Puneet Sharma . Multimedia security based on biometrics for copyright protection and authentication SERB-DST Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar . Theory and Numerical Algorithms for Interval System and Interval Eigen Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences, BARC Dept. of Atomic Energy Dr. Vivek Vijay Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Collaborations Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Collaborations Faculty Members of the Department of Mathematics are keen to collaborate with individuals from academia, R D laboratories and industry in India and abroad, in areas of mutual interest. These collaboration include Teaching of courses, Organising short courses, Authoring of books, Undertaking research, Developing technologies. Some of the current engagements are with colleagues from the following Institutes Universities: IITs, ISI, IISc, IISERs, IMSc, TIFR India University of British Columbia, Kelowna, BC, Canada University of Windsor, Canada Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, USA US Air Force Research Laboratory, Rome, NY, USA Arizona State University USA University of North Carolina at Charlotte USA Zuse Institute Berlin Germany Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Undergraduate Programs Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Undergraduate Programs Minor Program in Data Science The Department of Mathematics offers a Minor Program in Data Science DS from July 2020. The minor program is offered to all the B.Tech. students of the institute except the students enrolled in B.Tech. CSE , B.Tech. AI DE and B.Tech. EE programs. The program facilitates the study of a multidisciplinary field that makes extensive use of statistics, predictive modeling, and machine learning without changing its application, irrespective of the domain. The main objective of specialization in Data Science is to equip students with the fundamental concepts, approaches, and methods in data science. The curriculum includes courses in mathematics, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and their applications in various domains.Upon the completion of the minor, students will develop critical and logical thinking to solve problems in data science and further will be able to use appropriate technology that aids their problem-solving and data analysis. B.Tech in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science AI DS The Department of Mathematics offers a Minor Program in Data Science DS from July 2020. The minor program is offered to all the B.Tech. students of the institute except the students enrolled in B.Tech. CSE , B.Tech. AI DE and B.Tech. EE programs. The program facilitates the study of a multidisciplinary field that makes extensive use of statistics, predictive modeling, and machine learning without changing its application, irrespective of the domain. The main objective of specialization in Data Science is to equip students with the fundamental concepts, approaches, and methods in data science. The curriculum includes courses in mathematics, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and their applications in various domains. Upon the completion of the minor, students will develop critical and logical thinking to solve problems in data science and further will be able to use appropriate technology that aids their problem-solving and data analysis. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Postgraduate Programs Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Postgraduate Programs While the classical aspects of mathematics are providing foundations for the analysis of key principles behind such modern and emergent technologies, modern aspects of mathematics coupled with computational capabilities are opening new avenues for further explorations. The M.Sc. Mathematics and M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences Programs at IIT Jodhpur aims at tapping these opportunities by developing workforce specialized in mathematical aspects of key technologies. The Department of Mathematicshosts the following post-graduate degree Programs, namely: a M.Sc. Mathematics Program , b M.Sc.- M.Tech. Mathematics Data Science Program , c M.Tech. Data and Computational Science Program , Download file: 994 KB and d M.Tech.- Ph.D. Data and Computational Science Program Download file: 994 KB Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Doctoral Program Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Doctoral Program The Department of Mathematicshosts the Ph.D. degree Program.The Ph.D. Program at the Department of Mathematics, IIT Jodhpur is offered with the objective of tapping unique opportunities by evolving both motivated researchers in the frontline areas and a well-trained workforce in the form of teaching faculty. The Program strives to provide a vibrant environment to nurture the knowledge and interpersonal skills of the students in pursuit of developing a well-trained workforce. Further details about the doctoral program can be seenhere Download file: 263 KB . The selected candidates shall go through course works as per the institute's regulations and then a comprehensive exam will follow for which syllabus can be foundhere Download file: 89 KB . Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Curriculum Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Curriculum The Department of Mathematics offers the following degree programs, namely: 1 Ph.D. Mathematics 2 M. Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree Data and Computational Sciences 3 M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences 4 M.Sc-M.Tech Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences 5 M.Sc Mathematics 6 Minor in data science 7 B.Tech System Science Discontinued from 2015 The curriculum of these programs are: a Curriculum of the M.Tech Data and computational Science -2025 Download file b Curriculum of the M. Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree Data and Computational Sciences Program Download file , c Curriculum of the M.Tech. M.Tech. Data and Computational Science Download file , d Curriculum of the M.Sc-M.Tech Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences Program , e Curriculum of the M.Sc Mathematics Program before AY 2019-20 , from AY 2019-20 Download file , and f Curriculum of Minor in data science Download file g Curriculum of the B.Tech System Science Program Discontioued from 2015. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Courses Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Courses The course associated with the different degree programs offered by Department of Mathematics can be seen at the following links: 1 M. Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree Data and Computational Sciences Program Download file , 2 M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences Program Download file , 3 M.Sc-M.Tech Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences Program , 4 M.Sc Mathematics Program before AY 2019-20 , from AY 2019-20 Download file and 5 Minor in data science 6 B.Tech System Science Program Download file Discontioued from 2015. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Program Structure Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Program Structure The Program Structure of the degree Programs offered by the Department of Mathematics are: 1 Ph.D. Mathematics 2 M. Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree Data and Computational Sciences Download file 3 M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences Download file 4 M.Sc-M.Tech Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences 5 M.Sc Mathematics 6 B.Tech System Science Download file Discontinued from 2015 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Regulations Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Regulations The Regulations governing thedegreeProgram hosted by the Department of Mathematics as approved by the Senate of the Institute are presented below forstudents enroll beforeJuly 2019 onwards are: 1 Regulations forB.Tech. SS Program Download :459 KB , 2 Regulations for M.Sc. Mathematics Program Download :463 KB , 3 Regulations for Ph.D. Mathematics Download :451 KB The Regulations governing thedegreeProgram hosted by the Department of Mathematics as approved by the Senate of the Institute are presented below forstudents enrollafter July 2019 onwards are: 4 Regulations for all Academic Programs Download :536 KB Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

PhD Students Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! PhD Students The details of Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D. students are : Sr. No Name Education Supervisor Research Area 62. Somanka Maiti B.Sc., Gurukul Kangri Vishwavidyalaya, Haridwar, 2014 M.Sc., Gurukul Kangri Vishwavidyalaya, Haridwar, 2016 Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar Image Processing 61. Vishnu Bharadwaj B.Tech, IIITDM Kancheepuram, 2018 Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay Applications of Deep Learning 60. Ratnesh Kumar Singh B.Sc. H , University of Delhi M.Sc., IIT Ropar Fractional Poisson Process 59. Shubham Garg B.Sc., K.M. Govt. College M.Sc., IIT Ropar Dr. Kirankumar Hiremath Approximation Methods for Differential Equations 58. Sushmita Yadav B.Sc., University of Delhi M.Sc., IIT Jodhpur Dr. Puneet Sharma Topological Dynamical Systems 57. Ankit Chauhan B.Sc. PCM , CCS University Meerut M.Sc. Mathematics, BHU Dr. Puneet Sharma Dr. Manish Aggarwal Dynamical Systems Fuzzy Set Theory 56. Deepak Kumar Mahanta B.Sc., North Odisha University M.Sc., NIT Jalandhar Dr. Abhishek Sarkar Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee Partial Differential Equations 55. Deepanshu Dhawan B.Sc., Kurukshetra University M.Sc., SLIET Dr. Puneet Sharma Topological Dynamics 54. Lovelesh Sharma B.Sc., CCS University Meerut M.Sc., Central University of South Bihar Dr. Tuhina Mukharjee Analysis of PDEs 53. Nammi Venkata Apparao B.Sc., Andhra University M.Sc., Andhra University Categorical Data Analysis 52. Narendra Kumar B.Tech, Galgotias College M.Tech, IIT Patna Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar Image Processing 51. Naveen Kumar B.A., NMPG Govt College Hansi M.Sc., Kurukshetra University Dr. Ambesh Dixit Statistical Properties of Entropy 50. Pankaj Kumar Integrated M.Sc., Pondicherry University M.Tech., IIT Jodhpur Risk Measures and Dependence Modeling 49. Bikram Adhikary B.Sc. Hons , CBPBU M.Sc., CBPBU Dr. Md Abu Talhamainuddin Ansary Multi-objective Optimization 48. Gurubachan B.Sc. H , University of Delhi M.Sc., IIT Delhi Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli Dr. Saurabh Verma Fractal Geometry Dynamical Systems 47. Mrityunjoy Saha B.Sc. M.Sc., CBPBU Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh Hydrodynamic Instability 46. Nishtha Tomar B.Sc. Hons , University of Delhi M.Sc., JIIT Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar Image Processing 45. Pankaj Yadav University of Delhi IIT Jodhpur Predictive Modeling for Disease Diagnosis 44. Himanshi Singh B.Sc. M.Sc., AMU Aligarh Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra Information Theory 43. Saloni Gupta B.Sc., Rajasthan University M.Sc., IIT Gandhinagar Dr. Moumita Mandal Numerical Functional Analysis 42. Ajay Kumar BA, RKSD College Kurukshetra University, 2018 M.Sc., University of Delhi, 2020 Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli Dynamical Systems, Neural Networks, Mathematical Biology 41. Animesh Maiti B.Sc. Hons Mathematics, University of Calcutta M.Sc. Applied Mathematics, Vidyasagar University Dr. Subhash Bhagat Multi-robot Systems Coordination 40. Barsha Shaw University of Burdwan NIT Durgapur Dr.Md Abu T. Ansary Optimization 39. Km Deepanshi Singh B.Sc., Maharana Pratap Govt. Degree College, Hardoi, 2018 M.Sc., IIT Patna, 2021 Dr. Kirankumar R. Hiremath Applied Functional Analysis 38. Nikita Srivastava B.Sc., St. Andrew's College M.Sc., MMMUT Gorakhpur Dr. Pradip Sasmal Dr. Mriganka Mandal Quantum Cryptography 37. Ranit Dutta B.Sc. M.Sc., Jadavpur University Dr. Bimal Mandal Cryptographic Boolean Functions 36. Shubham Kumar Jain B.Sc. M.Sc., University College of Science, Udaipur Dr. Pradip Sasmal Compressive Sensing and Frame Theory 35. Ankit B.Sc. Mathematical Sciences, University of Delhi M.Sc. Mathematics, BHU Dr. Abhishek Sarkar Elliptic Partial Differential Equations 34. Arijit Saha R.K.M.V.C.C, 2020 IIT Madras, 2022 Dr. Pradip Sasmal Cryptography 33. Divya Singh University of Delhi IIT Madras Dr. Pradip Sasmal, Dr. Santhosh Kumar Physics-informed neural network and application in systems engineering 32. Geetanjli B.Sc., HP Univ. M.Sc., NIT Silchar Dr. Kirankumar R. Hiremath Numerical Solutions of Differential Equations 31. Harshit Jain B.Sc., University Maharaja College, Jaipur M.Sc., IIT Bhubaneswar Dr. Mandira Mondal Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra Commutative Algebra, Algebraic Geometry 30. Nitish Kumar B.Sc., Kurukshetra University M.Sc., IIT Jodhpur Dr. Bimal Mandal Cryptographic Boolean Functions 29. Prakhar Shukla B.Sc. Hons , University of Delhi M.Sc., MNNIT Allahabad Dr. Subhash Bhagat Distributed Computing for Swarm Robotics 28. Shivam B.Sc. Hons , Punjabi University M.Sc. Hons , Punjab University Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra Dr. Bhargab Chattopadhyay Statistics 27. Simran University of Delhi HGC, Maharshi Dayanand University Dr. VVMS Chandramouli Dynamical Systems 26. Ashutosh Dixit B.Sc. M.Sc., Dr. Hari Singh Gour University Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee Analysis of PDEs 25. Gaurav Kumar Dyal Singh College, University of Delhi,2020 MSBU Bharatpur,2022 Dr. Dilpreet Kaur Algebra 24. Anjali Moyal B.Sc. H , University of Delhi, 2020 M.Sc., University of Delhi, 2022 Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli Dynamical System And Ordinary Differential Equations 23. Shivam kumar Dyal Singh college, University of Delhi, 2021 J.C. Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, 2023 Dr. Subhash Bhagat Distributed Computing 22. Amal Kumar Pramanick Burdwan Raj College, 2022 Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, 2024 Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh Applied Differential Equations and Numerical Simulations 21. Bende Naresh B.Sc M.P.CS , Osmania University, 2021 M.Sc Applied Mathematics , University of Hyderabad, 2023 Dr. Kiran Meena Geometry of Smooth Mappings 20. Radhika sharma Vanasthali Vidhyapith, 2019 Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, 2022 Dr. Kiran Meena Some contributions in Riemannian Geometry. 19. Sanu Sarkar University of Kalyani,2021 University of Kalyani,2023 Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh Lie symmetry analysis of differential equations 18. Vimalesh Kumar University of Delhi, 2019 Delhi Technological University, 2021 Dr. Moumita mondal Numerical functional Analysis 17. Darshana Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak Central University Haryana Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra Generalized Entropies, Majorization 16. Nammi Venkata Apparao B.Sc, D.V.N College, 2011 M.Sc, Andhra University, 2013 Generalized Entropies, Majorization 15. Swaroop Charan University's Maharaja's College, Jaipur, 2018 Hansraj College, University of Delhi, 2020 Dr. Kuntal Som Optimization Theory and Quantum information science 14. Adarsh Vishwakarma B.Sc., University of Allahabad, 2021 M.Sc., University of Allahabad, 2023 Dr. Md Abu Talhamainuddin Ansary Optimization 13. Akash Samanta Midnapore College Autonomous , 2023 NIT Calicut, 2025 Dr. Subhash Bhagat Distributed computing 12. Narendra Gehani Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University, 2022 The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, 2024 Dr. Kuntal Som Optimization 11. Indranil Mukherjee Burdwan University, 2022 Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira Dr. Bimal Mandal Cryptography 10. Jaikishan Bairwa University of Rajasthan, Jaipur, 2021 Malaviya National Institute of Technology Jaipur NIT Jaipur , 2023 Dr. Subhash Bhagat Distributed Computing 9. Krishnendu Das B.Sc, Bajkul Milani Mahavidyalaya, 2022 M.Sc, Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, 2024 Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra Statistics 8. Prateek Somvanshi University of Allahabad University of Allahabad Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra Robust Statistical Inference 7. Preetam Joshi Rajasthan University, 2019 IIT Tirupati, 2022 Statistics 6. Ritika Gupta University of Rajasthan 2020 IIT Mandi 2024 Dr. Puneet Sharma Game theory 5. Somnath Kumar Jagannath Kishore College, Purulia, 2022 IIT Madras, 2024 Dr. Abhishek Sarkar Partial Differential Equations 4. Subhadip Sahoo Vidyasagar University, 2021 National Institute of Technology Jamshedpur, 2023 Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar Image Reconstruction and Restoration 3. Vishnu Kumar B.Sc, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, 2020 M.Sc, IIT Jodhpur, 2024 Dr. Brahadeesh Sankarnarayanan Graph theory and combinatorics 2. Sanchita Satpathy B.Sc., Midnapore College Autonomous , 2021 M.Sc., IISER Mohali, 2024 Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee Analysis of PDE 1. Zafar Hossain B.Sc., University of Calcutta M.Sc., IIT Mandi Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh Differential Equations: Theory and Numerical Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Our Alumni Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Our Alumni We are very keen to keep in touch with our alumni and would like to open-heartedly welcome our alumni to keep in touch with us as well. We would like to request our alumni to contact connect us via Facebook , Twitter and LinkedIn to share your latest information and your achievements, we will be glad to showcase them on our website and other digital platforms.Also, your are requested to register yourself at the official alumni portal of IIT Jodhpur to be in close touch with your Alma mater. Ph.D. Students Graduated From Department of Mathematics, IIT Jodhpur Sr. No. Name Thesis Title Supervisor Year of Defense 25. Dr. Ruby Projection methods for fractional-order integro-differential equations Dr. Moumita Mandal . Dr. Arnab Kayal Spectral Projection Methods for Integral and Integro-Differential Equations Dr. Moumita Mandal . Dr. Pushpendra Singh A Study in Quandles and Quandle Rings Dr. Dilpreet Kaur . Dr. Sougata Mandal Local and Nonlocal Symmetry Analysis on Complex Flow Problems Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh . Dr. Sushmita Chandel Segmentation algorithms for automatic concealed object detection using Terahertz imaging Prof. Gaurav Bhatnagar 2025 20. Dr. Rakesh Kumar Non-self-adjoint Eigenvalue Problem for Optical Bent Waveguides Dr.Kirankumar Rajshekhar Hiremath 2025 19. Dr. Rohit Kumar On Generalized Fractional Hardy Inequality and Some Problems With Critical Nonlinearity Dr. Abhishek Sarkar 2025 18. Dr.Aishwaraya Goyal Dynamics of Homographic Ricker-like maps Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli 2024 17. Dr.Prashant Kumar On Some Problems For Graph Induced Symbolic Systems Dr. Puneet Sharma 2024 16. Dr. Dheeraj Goyal Towards more realistic shock models with applications in optimal maintenance Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra 2023 15. Dr. Tanmay Sahoo On Some Important Reliability Aspects of General Coherent Systems Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra 2023 14. Dr. Divya Gupta Dynamics of q-deformed nonlinear maps Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli 2022 13. Dr. Rohit Kumar Renormalizations of Unimodal and Bimodal Maps with Low Smoothness Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli 2021 12. Dr. Brajesh Kumar Shukla Development of an Instrument of Sit-to-Stand for measurement of Sarcopenia in older Indians Dr. Vivek Vijay . Dr. Shraddha Choudhary Scattering of Electromagnetic Waves in Disordered Metamaterials and Metasurfaces Dr. Kirankumar R. Hiremath 2020 10. Dr. Satendra Pal Singh Novel and Robust Methodologies for Image Security Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar 2020 9. Dr. Dileep Kumar Some Results on Multidimensional Shift Spaces Dr. Puneet Sharma 2020 8. Dr. Amit Bhati Bandwidth Enhancement of Microwave Absorbers Using Engineered Planar Structures Dr. Vivek Dixit and Dr. Kirankumar R. Hitemath 7. Dr. Anurag Sahu In-situ sensitization and photoelectrode material for II-VI quantum dot sensitized solar cells along with detailed balance limiting efficiency Dr. Ambesh Dixit and Co-Supervisor: Dr. Kirankumar Hiremath 2019 6. Dr. Manish Raghav Dynamics of a General Non-autonomous Dynamical System Dr. Puneet Sharma 2019 5. Dr.Supriyo Dutta Graph Theoretic Aspects of Quantum Information Processing Dr. Subhashish Banerjee 2019 4. Dr. Parvinder Singh Analysing Multiqubit Entanglement, Nonlocality and Quantum Information Processing Protocols Dr. Atul Kumar 2018 3. Dr. Parmod K. Paul Technical Analysis for Short-Term Forecasting of Financial Data and Turn of the Year Effect Dr.Vivek Vijay 2018 2. Dr. Rohan Sharma Complex network generative models using corona product of graphs Dr. Bibhas Adhikari 2018 1. Dr. Ranveer Singh A Measure of Balance, Spectra of Signed Graphs, and a Novel Algorithm for Matrix Determinant and Permanent Dr. Bibhas Adhikari 2018 M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences Details of Students' Who Graduated in the Year 2021 Master of Science Mathematics Graduates Details of Students' Who Graduated in the Year 2017 Details of Students' Who Graduated in the Year 2018 Details of Students' Who Graduated in the Year 2019 Details of Students' Who Graduated in the Year 2020 Details of Students' Who Graduated in the Year 2021 Master of Technology System Science Graduates This program was discontinued in 2015. The batch wise list of students can be seen here . Bachelorof Technology System Science Graduates This program was also discontinued in 2015. The batch wise list of students can be seen here . Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Laboratories Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Laboratories In the learning process, one of the most appealing aspects for students to involve earnestly is by virtue of laboratories. It essentially provides students with hands-on experience of course concepts and with the opportunity to realize the connection between book knowledge and real-world applications. Keeping these points in mind, Department of Mathematics has the following laboratories for teaching purposes: 1 Programming Techniques Laboratory This laboratory is for MSc Mathematics and MSc-MTech Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences students and is a core component of the curriculum. 2 Data Analytics Laboratory This laboratory is for MTech Data and Computational Sciences students and is a core component of the curriculum. For more details of these laboratory, please refer to the MSc and MTech curriculum. Laboratory image Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Contact Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Contact Office of Mathematics Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District eMail: Phone: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Recruitment Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! F Faculty Members P Post Doctoral Fellows T Technical Staff Members P Project Staff Members Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Mathematics Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and creates new theories to solve real-world challenging problems. Our department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods to model such situations that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering, and basic sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Algebra, Mathematical Physics, Scientific Computation, Numerical Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Reliability Theory, Applied Probability. We are excited to offer high-quality programs at postgraduate level for students who wish to apply math to science or engineering such as a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences. We also offer an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational Sciences and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics to those who wish to earn a deeper understanding of pure and applied Mathematics. Workshop on LEAN List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II of th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO -2025 From the Head of the Department Welcome to the Department of Mathematics!! The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to advancing the fields of pure mathematics, applied mathematics and statistics. Our vision is to emphasize both the fundamental principles of core mathematics and the foundational concepts essential for analyzing key principles applied in cutting-edge technologies. Since its establishment, the department has been actively engaged in research across various critical areas of mathematics and computing. The department also aimed to explore modern aspects of mathematics coupled with computational capabilities to develop a workforce specialized in mathematical aspects of key technologies. With this inclination, the department initiated academic programs to address the mathematical needs of both industry and academia. Currently, we offer various programmes, namely, a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences.... Read More: Head Message Latest Events View all Events Feb Research seminar by Dr Abhishek Kumar Singh on Feb 23, 2026 Jan Invited talk by Prof. Basant Lal Sharma on 27 January 2026 at 12PM Jan PhD Thesis Defense of Ms. Sushmita Yadav on 15 January 2026 at 03:00 PM Announcement View all announcement 1 Ph.D. Admission Results Semester-II, AY Merit List of Provisionally Shortlisted Candidates for Ph.D. Admission... 3 List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II.... Latest News View all news Workshop on LEAN The Department of Mathematics is organizing an introductoryworkshop on the Lean proof assistant from 26th to 28th February. 5th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO- th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO-2025 AFS-I - Annual Foundation School - I 2024 IIT Jodhpur AFS-I - Annual Foundation School - I 2024 IIT Jodhpur Highlights View all Highlights Nonlinear coupled-mode framework for coupled systems: From exact Hamiltonian models to improved reduced-order formulations General Casorati inequalities and implications for Riemannian maps and Riemannian submersions Congratulation to Dr Kiran Meena for Published of research paper Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , , , - : , , X , , : : . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Department of Physics The subject of Physics is inherently a natural science subject based on strong theoretical foundations and experimental findings. The subject closely intersects with almost all the branches of engineering and the current research activities of physics across the world made a huge impact on new, advanced, and emerging technologies. Keeping these facts into consideration, our Department is committed to imparting high-quality education based on a strong academic curriculum comprising elements of theoretical concepts, laboratory experiments, and most importantly hands-on experiments. The graduates of the Department are expected to have deep insight into the domain of Physics together with a strong bent of mind to pursue cutting-edge research and translate it into technology. We offer a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Our 4 Year BS in Physics with specialization is a technology-oriented science program and offers specialization in physics-based emerging technology domains. The program also has the flexibility to convert into a 5 Year BS M.Tech. dual degree course. At the postgraduate level, we have four-degree programs viz. M.Sc. 2 years , M.Sc.-M.Tech Dual Degree in Physics and Materials Engineering. The dual degree program also has additional two specializations namely Functional Materials and Computational Materials Engineering. Finally, our Ph.D. program empowers scholars to pursue research in various domains. Research Areas The department hasa very good blend of highly qualified young and experienced faculty members in the areas of advanced physics. The department is also equipped with a number of thematic laboratories which enable the students to carry out high-end and impactful theoretical and applied research in the following focus areas: Research Areas High Energy Physics and Astrophysics Theoretical research in domains; Flavour physics, Astrophysics, Particle physics, Cosmology, and Dark matter and Dark energy. Experimental research in flavor physics with the Belle II Experiment. Quantum Physics Open Quantum Systems, Theoretical and Experimental aspects of Quantum Optics Quantum Information, Quantum Field Theory, Quantum Statistical Mechanics and Quantum Cosmology. Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Group Experimental and Theoretical Research on Molecular electronics, Organic electronics, Cold Plasma Technologies and applications, Energy Storage, Solar cells, Light emitting diodes, Solar water splitting, Soft Matters, Statistical Physics, Computational Physics, Multiscale Modelling, Phase ordering dynamics, Glasses, Amorphous solids, Polymers and Solid Electrolyte materials, Physics of Living Matter, Active Matter Physics, Functional Materials, Materials Design and Engineering, Nanomagnetism and Multiferroics. Optics and Photonics Theoretical and Experimental Research in Nano Photonics, Light in disordered media, Ultrafast Optics, Nonlinear Optics, Topological Singularities, Specially Optical Fibers, Photonic sensors, Time Dynamic systems, Terahertz generation and application, Transient and Steady-state Spectroscopy, Bound state in the continuum, Disorder Photons and Light Matter Interaction and Ceramic materials for high energy laser applications. Candidates interested in pursuing Ph.D., please go through the Research groups and visit the individual faculty's home pages . The application can be submitted with this link . Infrastructure The department is equipped with high-end research equipment which includes SQUID magnetometer, Physical Property Measurement Systems PPMS , Raman Spectrometer, and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope STM besides a host of other advanced characterization equipment which is available at the Centre for Research Development of Scientific Instruments CRDSI . Collaborations The department is having close collaboration with a number of National and International agencies including DRDO, ISRO, DAE, CSIR, DST, and SERB. Department Faculties also have collaborations with various Institutes of National and International repute, namely TIFR, IIT Bombay, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT BHU, Central University of Rajasthan, University of Montreal, Canada, University of Warsaw Poland, Brookhaven National Laboratory USA, ETH Zurich Switzerland, IMEM Parma Italy, INFN Turino, Italy, CMU Pittsburgh USA, Belle II KEK Japan etc. Our Social Media Connect Contact Numbers for New Students for any queries regarding registration, accessing facilities etc.. Phone Numbers: Office of Physics Highlights View all highlights Prof. Ram Prakash from the Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur has been elected as the President of the Plasma Science Society of India 20262028 Mr.Shubham Chamola has received the prestigious Commonwealth Fellowship to work at the University of Cambridge, UK for a duration of one year Nov 2024-Oct 2025 Dr. Yogeshwar Nath Mishra has co-invented the Worlds fastest single-shot wide-field microscope with his collaborators at NASA-Caltech in USA and FAU in Germany. They published their work in the journ Jitendra Yadav has received the Galileo Galilei Poster Award at the International Symposium on Beyond Li-ion Batteries held in Padova, Italy Sept 1-6, 2024 . Ph.D. students, Sipra Mohapatra and Hema Teherpuria, have been awarded the prestigious APS travel grant and Best Poster award for HEMA at CCP2024 Our PhD student Miss Surbhi Ramawat has received the best poster award with a cash prize of 250 - Euro in one of the globally renowned conference on thermoelectric materials. Latest News View all news 1 Ph.D. Admissions in Physics AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II DEC List of Candidates for Ph.D. Admission - Academic Year Semester I 3 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD Admission AY 2025-26, Department of Physics Seminars Meetings View all events Feb Diving Deep into Physics Seminar Series : Quantum Superposition, Entanglement, and Applications by Prof. Natthi Lal.. Jan Departmental Seminar : Thin film devices on conventional and green substrates by Dr. Deepa Bhatt, NOI Techpark, Free Univ.. Jan Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: From Empirical to Machine Learning Potentials: Modeling Liqu.. Dec Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: 3.6m DOT and Energetic Cosmic Transients by Dr. Shashi Bhushan Pandey.. Nov Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: The amazing world of gravitational wave from binary neutron star merger by Prof. Ritam.. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Post Doctoral Fellows Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Post Doctoral Fellows The Department of Physics invites applications from young Doctoral Degree holders below the age of 35 years to Post-Doctoral Positions in the Department. The Department of Physics is looking at growing in the area of . Interested persons are invited to apply online. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Technical Staff Members Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Technical Staff Members The Department of Physics has vacancies in regular Staff Members positions at the levels of Junior Technician, Technician, Junior Technical Superintendent, Technical Superintendent. These Staff Members are expected to work closely with Faculty Members and Students alongside other Staff Members to meet the science and technology objectives of the Institute. Interested persons are invited to apply online. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Project Staff Members Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Project Staff Members A number of sponsored research projects are being run by Faculty Members of the Department of Physics. Technical support is required to effectively meet the technical objectives of the project. Towards this end, temporary positions are available for young scientists and technicians to seek training and engagement with advanced subjects of the ongoing research projects. Interested persons are invited to apply online for these temporary positions: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Undergraduate Program Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Undergraduate Program B.S. Courses B.Tech. Courses B.Sc.- B.Ed Courses 1. B.S. in Physics with Specialization A Unique Undergraduate Program Introduction Our BS program is designed for highly motivated students interested in basic science and cutting-edge technologies in the broad discipline of physics blended with engineering and wishes for a flexible program to consider a variety of challenging career paths through capability-linked specializations in Energy, Photonics, Plasma Technologies, Quantum Technologies and Entrepreneurship. Degree Options 4 Year BS Degree 5 Year BS-M.tech. Dual Degree Watch our Open House 2023 BS Program Objectives 1 An academic path to.. Enter into the graduate programs e.g. MS or Ph.D. Research in fundamental and technology application oriented domains Career in scientific or academic profession 2 An industrial path to.. R D in relevant industries Leadership through lifelong learning 3 An entrepreneurial path to.. Entrepreneurship as specialization SME Develop new technologies based products Initiate Deep Tech start-up companies Fellowships For candidates with AIR under 5000 in combined merit rank JEE Advanced S N Bose Fellowship of 50,000 - INR per semester, consistent with 8.0 or above CGPA in all semesters. One fully paid International Conference Internship 2-month duration during Summer Term Curriculum click here Download file Specialization Our Physics BS students explore subjects critical to advancement in todays needs from everyday common know-how to critical problems in different inter multi-disciplinary domains using the fundamental and applied physics knowledge blended for present and future complex issues challenges. One of the key salient features of the BS Physics program at the IIT Jodhpur is that the curriculum offers enormous flexibility to students for pursuing capability-linked specializations of their choice. The Departments core specializations are designed to enable students to lead future technological innovations addressing the emerging industrial and societal challenges in following domains. The 4-year degree program also offers additional opportunity to pursue diverse and challenging carrier options for e.g. in Entrepreneurship 5 , who will be getting experience in converting their ideas into deep-tech start ups. A B.S. student having opted for specific specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end of the 7th semester and fulfilling minimum credit requirements may be allowed to switch to B.S.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the 8th semester. 1 Advanced Energy Materials Energy harvesting materials and devices Utilization of renewable and non-renewable energy sources Optimized devices Exploration of future applications 2 Plasma Technologies Plasma-based controlled thermonuclear fusion Industrial plasma applications Laser plasma and accelerators 3 Photonics Deep insights to emerging photonics technologies ultra-fastchips, mid-infrared lasers etc Redefining Quantum Technology Photonic Devices as Fundamental Components Tera-hertz THz technologies for imaging, sensing and communications 4 Quantum Technologies Femtosecond Lasers Facility Study of higher entangled photons Acquire skill-sets in various domains; Quantum Computing Quantum Communication Quantum Sensing Quantum Materials 5 Entrepreneurship Offered by school of management SME IIT Jodhpur Placement opportunities Acquire skills in various entrepreneurship areas Starting up a new Venture Ideation Prototyping New Venture Financing, Business Plan Phase-I and Phase II IPR Legal Issues for Start-ups Systems Engineering and Project Management Unique Features Technology oriented science program and specialization in physics based emerging technology domains. Strong foundations of fundamental as well as applied concepts of physics enabling to excel in physics driven technologies Flexible Curriculum Integrating Engineering Design aspect. Translating projects and ideas into Innovation through startup, technology park or industry collaborations. Emphasis on theoretical concepts, computational skills and hands-on experience. Interdisciplinary research and product development ecosystem. Common first year courses with B.Tech. programs and opportunity? of changing to B.Tech. program. Graduate attributes The Graduates of the UG program in Physics are expected to have the following attributes: Strong foundations of fundamental as well as applied concepts of physics enabling to excel in physics driven technologies. Ability to acquire new knowledge of physics and integrate with engineering concepts to create new and innovative technologies for current and future applications. Ability to apply critical scientific thinking and engineering skills to identify, formulate, and solve complex problems in applied areas blended with engineering practices. Ability to apply principles of physics in the domain of Energy materials and devices with a focus on generation, storage and management. Ability to engage and actively participate in the upcoming areas of Quantum Information and related research domains of Quantum Technologies. Preparedness to participate in future technological developments in photonics and optical communications beyond 5G including Terahertz technology. Ability to compete effectively in a world of rapid technological advancements and assume leadership roles within academic, industrial, or entrepreneurial environments. Aware of ethical issues, societal needs, and problems and conduct themselves as responsible professionals. Learning outcomes The Graduates of the UG program in Physics will be able: To acquire knowledge of fundamental and applied physics principles along with the required understanding of computing, mathematics, and engineering. To create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and fundamental physics tools to solve complex engineering problems with an understanding of the limitations through laboratory exercises and design projects. To apply the concepts of mathematics, physics including Quantum technologies and advanced computing tools, to design complex engineering systems containing hardware and software including Quantum algorithms modules. To acquire knowledge of fundamental and advanced concepts of Photonics and Terahertz technologies for communications, devices towards medical applications, sensing, quantum technologies, spectroscopy and imaging. To gain an in-depth understanding of concepts of materials and devices for energy generation and storage, integration of energy sub-systems and next generation communications. To perform a critical literature review and patent landscaping for innovative research. To understand professional ethics and social responsibilities. To develop technical presentation skills and communicate effectively. To develop an attitude for product design and entrepreneurial activities. R D Projects and Collaborations FAQs BS Program Ques. 1 Is it possible to opt for the specialization in other domains? Ans. No, the specialization is available with the domains listed above only. Ques. 2 I am interested in B.S.- M.Tech. Dual Degree Program but I can't find information related to M.Tech. branch. Ans. The same B.S. specialization will be offered for M.Tech. degree. Ques. 3 What are the available placement opportunities for students in BS programs? Ans. BS students are allowed to participate in all placements options similar to other engineering branches e.g. Google, Apple, Amazon, Banking, e-commerce, etc or go for National Labs DRDO, ISRO, etc. If you have an interest in academics and research, you can also pursue M.S., M.Tech. and Ph.D. abroad and in India. Ques. 4 I am interested in B.S.- M. Tech. Dual Degree but I can't find the option in JEE Advanced counseling. Ans. This is expected. Please select our 4-Year BS in Physics with specialization program. The choice of B.S.- M.Tech. Dual Degree program will be available at the end of 7th semester. The dual degree program is subject to minimum course credit and academic performance CGPA 6 . Ques. 5 Is it possible to switch to a different engineering branch from 2nd year? Ans. Yes and it is subject to the academic performance Ques. 6 Whom should I contact for additional questions and doubts? Ans. Please send us your queries at 2. B.Tech First Year The Department is also actively engaged in teaching regular physics course viz. Electromagnetism and Optics PHL1010 to B.Tech. I year students. The Department is also offering Preparatory Physics Courses PHL0010 and PHL0020 at IIT Jodhpur catering to the requirements of the students of various IITs. Also, B.Tech. I Year students perform some interesting experiments in the Physics Laboratory Course PHP1010 . This course is of immense importance wherein the students are able to understand and appreciate that how the physical principles are important for various engineering disciplines and how they can be applied in various engineering problems. Strong emphasis is given on two very important aspects viz. i fundamental principles of physics for each of the experiments and ii proper recording of the observations and their documentation. Additionally, various compulsory and elective courses offered by the Department are also open to B.Tech. students as elective courses. From the large pool of courses relating to Fundamental Physics, Multidisciplinary Science Technology and Engineering Physics, the students can register for the courses of their choice subject to fulfillment of necessary guidelines given in the Academic Regulations of the Institute. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Postgraduate Program Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Postgraduate Program Department of Physics at IIT Jodhpur is offering following two post-graduate programs M.Sc. Physics 2 years MSc Physics -M.Tech. Materials Engineering Dual Degree Program - 4 years 1. M.Sc. Physics 2 years Introduction The Department of Physics at IIT Jodhpur is offering a 2-year M.Sc. program. The candidates to this program are admitted through JAM examination. The main objective of the program is to create a pool of professionals with very strong fundamentals in the domain of physics. Based on the experience of teaching advanced physics for the past several years, the Department has evolved a unique combination of program structure, courses and teaching pedagogy which not only allows the students to acquire in-depth learning of the concepts of physics and their application potential but also gives them freedom to choose the courses as per their interests from the large pool of elective courses being offered by the Department. These electives can be from three different sets of the courses viz. advanced level fundamental physics, multidisciplinary science and technology and engineering physics. The program gives strong emphasis on the experiential learning aspects. As many as four labs and two hands-on courses are offered in the first year itself. In the hands-on exercise the students are given some interesting problems of physics. These problems are designed in a way that students learn to apply the concept of physics, make use of innovative approaches and develop creative thinking. Such activities provide much needed practical learning which help the students to effectively comprehend the complex theoretical concepts of physics. After completion of the program the students would have acquired the knowledge and skill sets to pursue their career, as per their interest, in the directions like advanced level research in fundamental and applied physics, R D in multidisciplinary science technology, higher education in engineering domains or availing job opportunities in government, public and private sectors. Advanced level research in fundamental and applied physics, R D in multidisciplinary science technology Objective The major objective of the programme is to bring out professionals having knowledge of basic laws of nature together with strong fundamentals in the core area of physics viz. Classical Mechanics, Quantum Mechanics, Condensed Matter Physics, Electromagnetism, Computational Physics, Statistical Physics, Electronics, Atomic and Nuclear Physics and advanced level topics such as Quantum Information Processing, Quantum Computing, High Energy Physics, Astrophysics, Plasma Physics, Nanotechnology, Nonlinear Optics, etc. Further objective of the program is to inculcate certain specific enabling skill sets to prepare the students to take up challenges in any one or more functional domains viz. i Academics; ii Basic and Applied Research; iii Research Development; iv Engineering Technology and v Industry. Expected Graduate Attributes In depth understanding of the fundamental concepts of physics. Ability to undertake problems in multidisciplinary domains of Science Technology viz. Space Science, Medical Physics, Plasma Science, Quantum Technologies, Advanced Materials Science, Computational Techniques, etc. Ability to apply the acquired knowledge of Physics to Engineering Problems. Understanding of basic tools of computational physics and their application in various domains of physics and engineering. Ability to perform the experiments and analyze the experimental data based on acquired knowledge in the domains of electronics, atomic and nuclear physics, condensed matter physics, optics and Lasers, and other advanced topics. Skills to demonstrate basic principles of physics by use of simple experimental as well as high end experimental techniques. Ability to develop advanced functional materials and carry out their characterization. Ability to design, fabricate and characterize device structures such as sensors, solar cells, optical components, etc. for various applications. Ability to make effective oral and written technical communication. Appreciation and adherence to norms of professional ethics. Learning Outcomes Knowledge and deep understanding of principles of basic and applied physics. Subject knowledge to pursue higher studies in the advanced physics areas, such as, High Energy Physics, Astrophysics, Quantum Information Processing, Nanotechnology, Plasma Technology, Nonlinear Optics, Fibre Optics, etc. Knowledge of fabrication and characterization of devices, such as, solar cells, gas sensor, energy storage, magnetic data storage, etc. Skills in certain experimental techniques for characterization of materials for their structural, morphological, surface topology, electrical, magnetic, dielectric and optical properties. Knowledge and skills to use various vacuum based techniques for development of thin film-based materials, structures, and plasma devices and systems. Technical knowledge and skills to understand and appreciate interdisciplinary research topics. Skills in computational physics for wide range of applications ranging from the visualization of physical theories and process, design of functional materials, simulation and modelling of optical processes, etc. Written and Oral technical communication skills. Duration: 2 years Proposed Intake: 38 including EWS Eligibility: JAM Physics qualified candidates will be considered as per the existing norms of M.Sc. Physics program. For details click here . 2. MSc Physics -M.Tech. Materials Engineering Dual Degree Program - 4 years Introduction Addressing present day technological challenges in the emerging areas of energy, water, security, defense, healthcare, space, etc. requires an inter-disciplinary approach, integrating scientific concepts with innovative engineering skills, towards problem solving. IIT Jodhpur is also committed to adopt this approach and has taken initiative to offer an M.Sc. Physics -M.Tech. Materials Engineering Dual Degree Program which will meet the human resources needs of the country to address the technological challenges in the domain of Materials Engineering. Here, the M.Sc. Physics program emphasizes on fundamental aspects of physics and materials science and the Materials Engineering focuses on designing, processing, and controlling the materials structure to attain desired properties for small- and large-scale production of advanced materials, components and materials systems exhibiting planned performance. The M.Sc. Physics -M.Tech. Materials Engineering program aims to produce professionals possessing adequate depth in subject knowledge in physics and materials and provide necessary experimental and computational skills to solve problems in a variety of domains in Materials Engineering. After the end of the dual-degree program, the graduates will have the necessary skills to solve Materials Engineering problems, based on scientific principles, for industrial needs and to carry out scientific research. Objective To provide science undergraduate students with in-depth knowledge of physics and materials engineering and train them to meet the skills necessary for industry, scientific research, and academia. The outcomes of this dual degree program are: To enable understanding of the current challenges of materials in different technological domains To Develop analytical, experimental and computational skills to provide solutions to materials related issues Design and development of advanced materials for futuristic technologies Systems approach to integrate the designed and developed novel materials for realizing the technological prototypes for various industrial purposes Duration: 4 years Proposed Intake : 13 including EWS Eligibility: JAM Physics qualified candidates will be considered as per the existing norms of M.Sc. Physics program. For details click here . Assistantship: Students with cumulative grade point average, CGPA, of 8.0 or more at the end of M.Sc. Physics program will be eligible for assistantship during the M.Tech. program as per the MHRD norms. Curriculum: Students will follow M.Sc. Physics curriculum during the first two years. After completion of the two years M.Sc. Physics program, the students will be automatically enrolled for the M.Tech. Materials Engineering program. During the last two years, the students will follow the M.Tech. Materials Engineering curriculum. Both degrees will be awarded together to the candidate after the successful completion of both the programs. The conceptual curricula for M.Sc. Physics , and M.Tech. Materials Engineering are available on the following links. M.Sc. Physics Download file M.Tech. Materials Engineering Download file For queries regarding admission, please contact, Chairman, Department Admission Committee: Dr Satyajit Sahu e-mail: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Doctoral Program Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Doctoral Program The Ph.D. program of the Department is uniquely designed to train students with required abilities viz. deep technical knowledge, technical communication skills both oral and written , understanding of intellectual property issues and general writing skills so as to enable them to effectively manage their professional requirement at respective work places. Department has a unique combination of young and experienced faculty having high research profile in the respective domains. Department provides opportunities to the student to pursue advanced research in a wide range of new and emerging research domains including the following: Advanced Multi-functional Materials and Devices Astrophysics Computational Condensed Matter Physics High Energy Particle Physics Materials for Energy Harvesting and Storage Materials Technologies for Strategic Applications Molecular Devices Nanoscience Nanotechnology Non-linear Optics Photonics Plasma Physics and Cold Plasma Technology Quantum Computing and Information Quantum Optics Soft Matter Physics The high level of research is enabled by a motivated group of expert faculty members supported by a large pool of high-end advanced research equipments and computational facilities. Some of the salient features of the Ph.D. program are as under: Opportunities to pursue multidisciplinary as well as transdisciplinary research Provision to have more than one supervisor from same or different subject streams Opportunities for participation in international collaborative projects Financial support to participate in International and National conferences Opportunity to use any laboratory facility of parent department as well as of any other department of the institute Access to equipment at Centre for Advanced Scientific Equipment CASE Access to Central Supercomputer for advanced computational work Access to large number of software resources including MATLAB, Mathematica, ANSYS, HFSS, etc. Compulsory Audit Course in IP Landscaping 24x7 Access to large volume of Journals and other technical literature through Institute Knowledge Centre Compulsory course on Technical Communication Skills For queries regarding admission, please contact, Chairman, Department Admission Committee: Dr Satyajit Sahu e-mail: Apply Here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Curriculum Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Curriculum S.No. Program File 1 B.S. in Physics with Specialization Click here Download file 2 M.Sc. Physics Click here Download file 3 M.Sc. Physics - M.Tech. Materials Engineering Dual degree Click here Download file 4 Ph.D. Physics Click here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Courses Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Courses S.No. Program File 1 M.Sc. Physics Click here Download file 2 M.Sc. Physics - M.Tech. Materials Engineering Dual degree Click here Download file 3 Ph.D. Physics Click here Download file Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Program Structure Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Program Structure S.No. Program File 1 M.Sc. Physics Click here Download file 2 M.Sc. Physics - M.Tech. Materials Engineering Dual degree Click here Download file 3 Ph.D. Physics Click here Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Regulations Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Regulations Regulations governing the M.Sc. Physics and Ph.D. Physics Programs hosted by the Department of Physics as approved by the Senate of the Institute, please click here . Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Research Groups Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Research Groups S.No. Research Domains Group webpage 1 Quantum Physics Click here 2 Optics and Photonics Click here 3 High Energy Physics and Astrophysics Click here 4 Condensed Matter Experimental Theoretical Computational and Plasma Physics Click here Projects Faculty Members are involved in sponsored research projects supported by various funding agencies. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Ongoing Projects Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Ongoing Projects Some of the prominent ongoing research projects include: S.No. Title PI CO-PI Funding Agency Year of completion 1 Hybrid Heterojunctions Based Stable and Efficient Photo-Rechargeable Li-Ion Batteries Shahab Ahmad ANRF 2027 2 Searching for New Physics beyond the Standard Model via studies of rare charm-decays at Belle II, PI: Dr. Jitendra Kumar DST, India 3 Macromolecules interactions mediated via complex ionic solution PI: Dr. Sunita SERB, DST, India A UV-light Sterilization System to treat N95 Filtering Face-mask Respirators for reuse PI: Ram Prakash Co-PI: Ambesh Dixit , Deepak Fulwani , Ankur Gupta IIT Jodhpur Application specific specialty optical fibers and towards 1D random lasers in disordered optical lattices PI: Somnath Ghosh Department of Science and Technology Delivery of high power ultra-short optical pulses in mid-infrared wavelength range Download file PI: Somnath Ghosh Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Development of nanostructured Cu2ZnSn S Se 4 thin films and their electronic properties for next generation solar photovoltaic applications Download file PI: Ambesh Dixit Department of Science Technology Generation of entangled photons and its applications to Quantum Computation and Information Processing Download file PI: V Narayanan Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems ICPS of DST Magnetars with superfluid core Download file PI: Monika Sinha Department of Science Technology, SERB Photo-Rechargeable Organo-Halide Perovskite- Transition Metal Dichalcogenide Batteries Download file PI: Shahab Ahmad Science and Engineering Research Board Photo-Rechargeable Perovskite Batteries for Future Mobility. Download file PI: Shahab Ahmad DST UKIERI International Research Project Possibilities and device applications of degenerate optical microcavities. Download file PI: Somnath Ghosh Science and Engineering Research Board Quantum Heat Engines Download file PI: V. Narayanan Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems ICPS of DST Sulphur nanoparticles Reinforced Hierarchical Assemblies of Carbon nanotubes for Efficient Lithium-Sulphur Batteries. Download file PI: Shahab Ahmad Department of Science Technology Synthesis and study of properties of electrochemically active composites based on lithium intercalated silicates of iron, manganese,cobalt and having high electron conductivity corbosilicides of transition metal Download file PI: Ambesh Dixit Department of Science Technology 2020 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Completed Projects Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Completed Projects Faculty Members of the Department have completed the following Sponsored Research Projects: S.No. Title Funding Agency PI CO-PI 1 A study of quantum correlations: Squeezing and its various facets Download file Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Delhi Subhashish Banerjee V. Narayanan 2 Design and development of high capacity and low cost Li2TMSio4 TM transition metals silicate materials for future rechargeable lithium ion battery. Download file DST-International Division Ambesh Dixit No 3 Development of Ferroelectric and their composite with hexaferrites for microwave absoption applications. Download file DRDO, Jodhpur Ambesh Dixit No 4 Development of high thermal conductivity PCM composites for thermal management Download file DRDO, Jodhpur Ambesh Dixit No 5 Development of III-Nitrides thin film s for high frequency saw device applications Download file ISRO Ambesh Dixit No 6 Development of Plasmonic metal hybrid electrode system for II-VI quamtum dot sensitized solar cellls QDSSCs realization of cerriet multiplication for better efficiency Download file DST Ambesh Dixit Kirankumar Hiremath 7 Graph Theoretical Aspects in Quantum Information processing Download file Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Delhi Subhashish Banerjee No 8 Hunting of new physics through b - s transitions Download file CSIR New Delhi Ashutosh Alok Subhashish Banerjee 9 Probing Magnetic Structures and Spin Flop transition in bulk and nanostrutured FeVo4 Multoferroic System Download file DAE-UGC Ambesh Dixit 10 Probing the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in Neutrino Oscillations Download file DST Subhashish Banerjee Ashutosh K Alok 11 Synchrony Based Evolution of Various Biological and Artificial Systems to Understand Complex Computational Aspects Download file DST Satyajit Sahu NA Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Collaborations Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Collaborations In order to leverage the advantage of complementarity in terms of expertise and infrastructure, it is highly important to establish links with the much bigger world which lies outside the boundaries of the institute. It is therefore very important to tap all possible opportunities of collaborations not only with the academic institutes but also with other equally important stakeholders including funding agencies, R D organizations and industries. In this pursuit, a number of collaborations have been established both at National as well as at International levels. Some of important collaborations are listed below: International Collaborations University of Montreal, Canada; Brookhaven National Laboratory, USA; CERN, Geneva, Switzerland Autonoma U., Barcelona, Spain; University of Warsaw, Poland ; Lawrence Technol. U., USA, Institute of Materials for Electronics and Magnetism, Parma, Italy; National Centre for Nuclear Research, Poland Gamma Ray Astronomy PeV EnergieS phase-3 GRAPES-3 ; Nanyang Technological University, Singapore The University of Cambridge, UK ; The University of Manchester, UK; National Institute for Materials Science, Japan Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, ISRAEL; Universit degli Studi di Brescia, Italy; Mississippi University, USA Okinawa Institute of Science Technology Graduate University, Japan; La Plata University, Argentina National Collaborations Tata Institute of Fundamental Research TIFR , Mumbai; Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi TIFR Center for Interdisciplinary Sciences, Hyderabad ; Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Thiruvananthapuram Central University of Rajasthan, India; Indian Institute of Science Bangalore; Mahindra cole Centrale, Hyderabad Institute of Radio Physics Electronics, University of Calcutta, Kolkata; JNU, New Delhi; Defence Laboratory Jodhpur Indian Institute of Science and Educational Research, Bhopal; Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee CSIR-Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute, Pilani; Institute for Plasma Research, Gandhinagar Bhabha Atomic Research Centre BARC Mumbai Vizag; CSIR - Nantional Metallurgical Laboratory, Jamshedpur Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Laboratories Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Laboratories The Department of Physics puts a strong emphasis on experiential learning aspects as an integral part of its curriculum for MSc as well as Ph.D students. This allows the students to learn theoretical concepts much quicker and better through hands-on experience. The department thus offers several laboratory courses for MSc student as prescribed in the program structure. Further, the lab experiments are designed in such a way that the students can comprehend the theoretical concepts taught in the class room and develop the skill sets which will enable them excel in their future professional endeavours. There has been tremendous growth in computational capabilities in past few decades. This has brought significant changes in the approaches towards research not only in engineering domains but also the areas of core sciences. The use of advanced computational tools has made it possible to perform experiments on virtual platforms through the process of simulation and modeling. This has significantly improved the pace at which the research outputs are obtained. Today, many of the outputs of simulation and modeling are applied directly in design and development of systems and technologies. Hence, it has been endeavour of the department to ensure that the computational laboratories are given due emphasis along with the laboratories with advanced equipment. Keeping this in view, the department has set up a number of laboratories for Teaching and Research. The teaching labs of the Department are equipped with some specialized instruments which the students can also use for their research activities as part of their project and thesis. In order to facilitate globally competitive cutting edge research and breakthrough technologies it is imperative to develop an atmosphere wherein the students and faculty members have free access to research facilities not only within the department but across all the departments oft he institute. With this philosophy in mind, the department is operating various thematic research labs wherein any student or faculty member can carry out his her research. The department has set up four focussed research groups which carry out fundamental and applied research in the areas of i Quantum Physics, ii High Energy and Astrophysics, iii Optics and Photonics and iv Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics. These research groups are supported by the Thematic Research Laboratories catering to the need of the Faculty members, PhD students and Research staffs. The details of Laboratories Teaching Research lab, Thematic Research lab and Research Groups of the Department are given below. The laboratories of the Department are managed under the supervision of faculty members of the department with the support of qualified technical staff and Ph.D. students. Quantum Physics Optics and Photonics High Energy Physics and Astrophysics Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Teaching Research Laboratories: Room No Name of the Laboratory Faculty In-Charge UGBL 202 Basic Physics Lab Download file Dr Reetanjali Moharana EE 102 Electronics Download file Dr Satyajit Sahu UGBL 202 Condensed Matter Physics Download file Dr Durgamadhab Mishra UGBL 202 Atomic and Nuclear Physics Download file Dr V. Narayanan EE 312 Optics and Laser Download file Dr B. M. Krishna Mariserla Computational Physics Lab Download file Dr Prabhat Jaiswal Thematic Research Laboratories: S. No. Name of the Laboratory Faculty In-Charge 1 Thin film and Device Lab Download file Dr Ambesh Dixit 2 Multiscale Characterization Lab Download file Dr Durgamadhab Mishra 3 Functional Material Design Lab Download file Dr Satyajit Sahu 4 Functional Material Processing Lab Download file Dr Shahab Ahmad 5 Nonliniear Optics and Photonics Lab Dr Somnath Ghosh 6 Quantum Optics and Quantum Information Lab Download file Dr V. Narayanan 7 Modelling and Simulation Physics Lab Download file Dr Prabhat Jaiswal Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Contact Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Contact Office of Physics Department Room No 337 338 2nd Floor Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District eMail:office physics at iitj dot ac dot in Phone: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Recruitment Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! F Faculty Members P Post Doctoral Fellows T Technical Staff Members P Project Staff Members Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Department of Physics The subject of Physics is inherently a natural science subject based on strong theoretical foundations and experimental findings. The subject closely intersects with almost all the branches of engineering and the current research activities of physics across the world made a huge impact on new, advanced, and emerging technologies. Keeping these facts into consideration, our Department is committed to imparting high-quality education based on a strong academic curriculum comprising elements of theoretical concepts, laboratory experiments, and most importantly hands-on experiments. The graduates of the Department are expected to have deep insight into the domain of Physics together with a strong bent of mind to pursue cutting-edge research and translate it into technology. We offer a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Our 4 Year BS in Physics with specialization is a technology-oriented science program and offers specialization in physics-based emerging technology domains. The program also has the flexibility to convert into a 5 Year BS M.Tech. dual degree course. At the postgraduate level, we have four-degree programs viz. M.Sc. 2 years , M.Sc.-M.Tech Dual Degree in Physics and Materials Engineering. The dual degree program also has additional two specializations namely Functional Materials and Computational Materials Engineering. Finally, our Ph.D. program empowers scholars to pursue research in various domains. Research Areas The department hasa very good blend of highly qualified young and experienced faculty members in the areas of advanced physics. The department is also equipped with a number of thematic laboratories which enable the students to carry out high-end and impactful theoretical and applied research in the following focus areas: Research Areas High Energy Physics and Astrophysics Theoretical research in domains; Flavour physics, Astrophysics, Particle physics, Cosmology, and Dark matter and Dark energy. Experimental research in flavor physics with the Belle II Experiment. Quantum Physics Open Quantum Systems, Theoretical and Experimental aspects of Quantum Optics Quantum Information, Quantum Field Theory, Quantum Statistical Mechanics and Quantum Cosmology. Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Group Experimental and Theoretical Research on Molecular electronics, Organic electronics, Cold Plasma Technologies and applications, Energy Storage, Solar cells, Light emitting diodes, Solar water splitting, Soft Matters, Statistical Physics, Computational Physics, Multiscale Modelling, Phase ordering dynamics, Glasses, Amorphous solids, Polymers and Solid Electrolyte materials, Physics of Living Matter, Active Matter Physics, Functional Materials, Materials Design and Engineering, Nanomagnetism and Multiferroics. Optics and Photonics Theoretical and Experimental Research in Nano Photonics, Light in disordered media, Ultrafast Optics, Nonlinear Optics, Topological Singularities, Specially Optical Fibers, Photonic sensors, Time Dynamic systems, Terahertz generation and application, Transient and Steady-state Spectroscopy, Bound state in the continuum, Disorder Photons and Light Matter Interaction and Ceramic materials for high energy laser applications. Candidates interested in pursuing Ph.D., please go through the Research groups and visit the individual faculty's home pages . The application can be submitted with this link . Infrastructure The department is equipped with high-end research equipment which includes SQUID magnetometer, Physical Property Measurement Systems PPMS , Raman Spectrometer, and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope STM besides a host of other advanced characterization equipment which is available at the Centre for Research Development of Scientific Instruments CRDSI . Collaborations The department is having close collaboration with a number of National and International agencies including DRDO, ISRO, DAE, CSIR, DST, and SERB. Department Faculties also have collaborations with various Institutes of National and International repute, namely TIFR, IIT Bombay, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT BHU, Central University of Rajasthan, University of Montreal, Canada, University of Warsaw Poland, Brookhaven National Laboratory USA, ETH Zurich Switzerland, IMEM Parma Italy, INFN Turino, Italy, CMU Pittsburgh USA, Belle II KEK Japan etc. Our Social Media Connect Contact Numbers for New Students for any queries regarding registration, accessing facilities etc.. Phone Numbers: Office of Physics Highlights View all highlights Prof. Ram Prakash from the Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur has been elected as the President of the Plasma Science Society of India 20262028 Mr.Shubham Chamola has received the prestigious Commonwealth Fellowship to work at the University of Cambridge, UK for a duration of one year Nov 2024-Oct 2025 Dr. Yogeshwar Nath Mishra has co-invented the Worlds fastest single-shot wide-field microscope with his collaborators at NASA-Caltech in USA and FAU in Germany. They published their work in the journ Jitendra Yadav has received the Galileo Galilei Poster Award at the International Symposium on Beyond Li-ion Batteries held in Padova, Italy Sept 1-6, 2024 . Ph.D. students, Sipra Mohapatra and Hema Teherpuria, have been awarded the prestigious APS travel grant and Best Poster award for HEMA at CCP2024 Our PhD student Miss Surbhi Ramawat has received the best poster award with a cash prize of 250 - Euro in one of the globally renowned conference on thermoelectric materials. Latest News View all news 1 Ph.D. Admissions in Physics AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II DEC List of Candidates for Ph.D. Admission - Academic Year Semester I 3 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD Admission AY 2025-26, Department of Physics Seminars Meetings View all events Feb Diving Deep into Physics Seminar Series : Quantum Superposition, Entanglement, and Applications by Prof. Natthi Lal.. Jan Departmental Seminar : Thin film devices on conventional and green substrates by Dr. Deepa Bhatt, NOI Techpark, Free Univ.. Jan Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: From Empirical to Machine Learning Potentials: Modeling Liqu.. Dec Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: 3.6m DOT and Energetic Cosmic Transients by Dr. Shashi Bhushan Pandey.. Nov Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: The amazing world of gravitational wave from binary neutron star merger by Prof. Ritam.. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , , , - - : , , , , , , - , , , , , : : 10 : . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Civil and Infrastructure Engineering The rapidly urbanizing society and increasing quality of life demand reliable and intelligent infrastructure systems which are capable of catering to the societal needs at different scales from an individual to the community level.Consequently, the civil and infrastructure industry has undergone profound changes and is constantly evolving. However, the new-age designs and innovations in the civil and infrastructure industry can only be driven by a group of engineering graduates having multidisciplinary training and a sound understanding of emerging technologies. The Department of Civiland Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur esatablished in January 2020. We started academics programs in the academic year . The department offers unique programs that incorporate and integrate the elements of conventional civil engineering with advanced transformative technologies such as artificial intelligence AI , cyber-physical-systems CPS , digital twins DT , and automated management and information systems. Additionally, a major thrust is also planned on the design, implementation, and maintenance of large-scale integrated infrastructure systems across different domains. The focus areas of the department are : Energy and Environment Building Sciences, Safety, and Services Applications of AI, IoT and CPS in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Smart and Integrated Infrastructure Urban Architecture and Planning Construction Technology and Management Transportation Engineering Structural Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Water resources Engineering Engineering Geology Vision The Department strives to be an internationally renowned centre of excellence in education, research, and innovation with a major focus on sustainability and digitalization of infrastructure. Missions Develop unique courses in the field of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering through advanced UG and PG programs with a multidisciplinary perspective. Establish high quality teaching and research facilities in the areas of smart, resilient, and sustainable infrastructure engineering to foster the needs of society. Promote consilient research through application of AI ML, cyber-physical-systems, digital twin and advanced visualization in the areas of Energy, Environment, Transportation, and Construction. Promote innovative and entrepreneurial activities through intellectual property generation and transfer. Nurture the potential of students to become future leaders in the Civil Engineering industry for leadership achievements, scientific breakthroughs and social welfare. Quick Access Department Brochure 5.1 MB Academic Calendar IITJ at a Glance 2024 English IITJ at a Glance 2024 Hindi Highlights View all highlights Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Hydrodynamics of turbulent flow in channels with submerged flexible vegetation canopy in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Is Congratulations to Dr. Sreejith Krishnan for publishing a research article titled Co-calcination of kaolinitic clay and green liquor dregs to produce supplementary cementitious materials in Journal Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Effects of U-burrow bioirrigation on turbulence characteristics in Journal of Hydraulic Research Congratulations to Mr. Abhishek Jain and his supervisor, Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, and Co-Supervisor Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury for publishing an article titled Comparative efficacy of raw and modified Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Shallow water hydrodynamics: Surge propagation and sill-controlled flows in Physics of Fluids Vol.36, Issue 12 Congratulations to Mr. Shahiq Ahmad Wani and his supervisor, Dr. Ranju Mohan, for publishing an article titled Digital payment adoption in public transportation: Mediating role of mode choice segment Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled The universal two-thirds law of pipeline scour in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4 Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Hydrodynamics of a rigid submerged vegetated flow in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4 News Newsletter View all news 1 Ph.D. Admissions Result AY 2025-26 Semester II Dec Shortlisted Candidates for written Test and or Interview of Ph.D. Program AY 2025-26 sem II 3 Ph.D. Admission Re-open Announcement 4 List of candidates Provisionally Shortlisted for M.Tech-Part Time Online Program Bridge Engineering 5 Result of Ph.D. Admissions Second Round, AY 2025-26 Semester I July 2025 Latest Events View all events Mar One-day workshop on Sustainability of Cement and Concrete in the Indian Context Jul Congratulations Dr. Bhupendra for SERB International Research Experience SIRE for the year Jan A Indo-UK workshop on Design of Foundation Systems for Offshore Wind Turbines - Indian Perspective Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Post Doctoral Fellows Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Post Doctoral Fellows Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 10 departments. These are: Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Technical Staff Members Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Technical Staff Members Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 10 departments. These are: Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Project Staff Members Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Project Staff Members Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 10 departments. These are: Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical Materials Engineering Physics Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Ongoing Projects Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Ongoing Projects Sponsored Projects Sr. No. Project Year PI Co-PI Funding Agency Amount in Lacs 1 Mechanical Response of sedimentary rocks under extreme conditions:Implications for cryogenic fracking 2019-24 Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy NA DST-Inspire 35. Utilization of Inferior Quality Aggregate in Hot, Warm and Cold Mix Asphalt 2020-23 Dr. Bhupendra Singh NA NHAI 52. In-situ remediation of arsenic by ferrous sulfide under heterogeneous porous media: Up-scaling effect and evaluation of long-term fate 2020-23 Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury NA DST-WTI Water Technology Initiative 47. Fracture-mechanical response of rocks subjected to freeze-thaw cycles 2021-24 Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy NA IITJ seed grant 23. Black Carbon - Quantification and Real-time contribution of Key Sources BC-QuaRKS 2021-24 Dr. Deepika Bhattu NA IIT seed grant 23. Dynamic Traffic Assignment Model for Multi-class Traffic Lacking Lane Discipline 2021-23 Dr. Ranju Mohan NA SERB-SRG 29. Source apportionment study, Emission inventory and Carrying capacity for Kota city, Rajasthan 2022-23 Dr. Deepika Bhattu Dr. A.K. Plappally, Dr. P.K. Tiwari, Dr. Ranju Mohan, Dr. Vikky Anand RSPCB 115. Development of a two-way interactive driving simulator for Indian traffic 2022-25 Dr. Ranju Mohan NA IIT seed grant 23. Transport behaviour of selected nanoparticles in the porous media for long duration under natural groundwater conditions 2022-25 Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury NA IIT seed grant 25. High-resolution climate-chemistry modeling over the Indo-Gangetic Plain IGP and western India 2022-25 Dr. Amit Sharma NA IIT seed grant 25. Risk of hydroclimatic extremes on major dams in India 2022-25 Dr. Saran Aadhar NA IIT seed grant 25. Development of Subsonic wind tunnel facility for Aeolian Soil Migration and Mitigation in Thar Desert 2022-25 Dr. Pradeep K. Dammala NA IIT seed grant 32. Deep Learning Based Structural Condition Assessment and Health Monitoring 2022-25 Dr. Amit K. Rathi NA IIT seed grant 25. Discontinuum numerical modeling of confined masonry structures under in-plane and out-of-plane loading scenarios 2022-25 Dr. P. Ravi Prakash NA IIT seed grant 25. Climate sensitivity to anthropogenic aerosol loading over western India 2022-25 Dr. Amit Sharma NA SERB-SRG 23. Sustainable Geopolymer based solutions for Sand Dune Migration Mitigation in Thar Desert 2022-23 Dr. Pradeep K. Dammala NA DST-SIRE 19. Thermal Performance Prediction of Multi-Layered Ensembles Subjected to Fire Exposure 2022-24 Dr. P. Ravi Prakash NA DRDO Armaments Research Board Grant-in-aid Scheme 17. Development of a coupled damage-plasticity discrete element framework for unreinforced masonry subjected to monotonic and cyclic loading 2023-25 Dr. P. Ravi Prakash NA SERB-SRG 25. Response of high-rise building structures under fire: Advanced simulations and design strategies 2023-24 Dr. P. Ravi Prakash NA SERB-SIRE 15. Understanding the impacts of Pre-Monsoon heat stress on Indian Summer Monsoon Precipitation in Arid regions of India under changing and anthropogenic climate 2023-26 Dr. Saran Aadhar NA Ministry of Education MoE 31. Flood Mechanisms in Arid and Semi-Arid Regions amidst Shifting Climate Patterns and Human Influence 2023-25 Dr. Saran Aadhar NA SERB-SRG 22. Performance evaluation of selected geotextile-based liner material against seepage loss in water conservation system under a wide range of temperature 2023-25 Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury Dr. Aali Pant NTTM, Ministry of Textiles 149 Sponsored Workshops Fellowships MDPs FDPs Sr.No. Title Year PI Co-PI Funding Agency Amount in Lacs 1 Faculty Development Program on Recent Advances in Pavement Analysis, Design and Evaluation 2021 Dr. Bhuepndra Singh NA AICTE-ATAL 0. Alumni Community Engagement Fund ACEF to organize a one-day symposium on offshore wind turbine foundations at IIT Jodhpur 2022 Dr. Pradeep K. Dammala NA Commonwealth Scholarship Commission CSC , UK 1000 GBP 3 Short-term Online Course on Structural Health Monitoring under Smart Infrastructure and Sustainability 2022 Dr. Amit Kumar Rathi NA IITJ-TISC NA 4 Sand Dune Migration Mitigation in Thar Desert - Wind tunnel and CFD analysis months Ms. Sumaja Kolli C o Dr. Pradeep K. Dammala NA India Institute Fellowship Scheme- University of Birmingham Developing constitutive soil models to understand the response of monopile foundations in seismic regions months Mr. Satish K. Adari C o Dr. Pradeep K. Dammala Prof. Salgado COFFEE Laboratory at Purdue University Overseas Visiting Doctoral Fellowship OVDF , SERB NA 6 Capacity Building Program: Digitalization tools for Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure Systems 2023 Dr. Saran Aadhar Dr. Ravi Prakash and Dr. Mayank Suman MoUHA and MITWPU 16. Capacity Building Program: Cybersecurity for Water Infrastructure 2023 Dr. Saran Aadhar Dr. Ravi Yadav and Dr. Mayank Suman Water Resources Department, Rajasthan 4.27 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Completed Projects Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Completed Projects Consultancy Projects Sr. No. Project PI Co-PI Funding Agency Amount in Lacs 1 Sand migration mitigation measures for the proposed haphasar solar park Dr. Pradeep K. Dammala Dr. A. K. Rathi, Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy SB Energy Pvt LTD 9. Analysis of Fibre Glass Mast Tower due to Wind Load Dr. Amit K. Rathi NA Ercon Composites 1. Qualitative and Quantitative analysis Chemical Test on 40 mm TMT Rebar for LARSEN TOUBRO LIMITED L T Energy Hydrocarbon Dr P. Ravi Prakash Dr Tekcham Gishan Singh, Dr A. K. Rathi LARSEN TOUBRO LIMITED L T Energy Hydrocarbon 0. Analysis Verification and validation of design of CTB under Project Himank, BRO Dr. Amit K. Rathi NA TARU 2. Suitability Checking of Cracked Isolated Footing Dr. Amit K. Rathi NA DEE VEE Project Ltd 1. Investigation of Tor Steel Dr. Amit K. Rathi NA UIEIPL 0. Capacity Enhancement of Sei Dam Tunnel Project WRD Rajasthan Dr. Saran Aadhar Dr. Pradeep K. Dammala, Dr. Bhupendra Singh, Prof. Pranab Mohapatra IITGN WRD Rajasthan 19. Structural proof checking, supervision consultancy and regular inspections of warehouse constructions Dr. Amit K. Rathi NA RSWC 37. Third Party Inspection for construction work of four-lane BT road at Pali under CM Budget announcement 2021-22 Dr. Bhuepndra Singh NA Municipal Council Pali, Rajasthan 7.08 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Collaborations Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Collaborations 1. National Highway Authority of India NHAI signed MoU with IITJ on Friday, 24th October 2020 The MoU will facilitate the joint working of the two organizations in various domains including transportation engineering, structural engineering, geotechnical engineering, hydraulics engineering, infrastructure systems, earthquake engineering, urban and rural planning, and disaster management and planning. This MoU will also allow IIT Jodhpur's undergraduate and postgraduate students to undertake paid internships in any of the above-mentioned fields. This collaboration will help to bridge the industry-institution gap and develop technologies which can be adopted in practice. 2. The Department has collaboration with Jodhpur Development Authority JDA , Jodhpur Nagar Nigam JNN , Jodhpur Traffic Police, Department of IT and Communications DoIT C as part of the planned projects under Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innocvation Cluster JCKIC . Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Dissertations Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Dissertations Department ofCivil and Infrastructure Engineering list various dissertations Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Journal Publications Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Journal Publications Department ofCivil and Infrastructure Engineering lists various Journal publications Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Research Project Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Research Project Department ofCivil and Infrastructure Engineering lists various Research Project Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Patents Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Patents Department ofCivil and Infrastructure Engineering lists various patents Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

MoUs Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! MoUs Department ofCivil and Infrastructure Engineering lists various MoUs Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Department Data Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Department Data Department's Data For Updated Department's Data Please visit the link Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Programs Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! U Under Graduation P Post Graduation R Research Program Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Academic Calendar Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Prospective Students Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! P PhD U Under Graduate P Post Graduate Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Structural Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Structural Engineering Department of Civil and Infrastructural Engineering, IIT Jodhpur plans to establish a state-of-the-art Laboratory in the Structural Engineering domain. Further, it also plans to establish various theme based laboratories such as Structural Health Monitoring Laboratory, Structural Modelling and Simulation Laboratory, Risk, Reliability and Stochastic Modelling Laboratory, Wind Energy and Engineering Laboratory, Steel and Composite Structures Laboratory, and Earthquake Engineering Laboratory. It involves studying ambient vibrations, conducting experimental studies on models prototypes of structural elements and assemblies under various static and dynamic loading conditions, and providing technical services for testing and researching the structural behavior and properties of materials. These laboratories envision to boost the research and teaching ecosystem in the structure engineering and interdisciplinary domains. At present, the Structural Engineer Laboratory caters experiments related to non-destructive testing such as rebound hammer, ultrasonic pulse velocity, rebar locator, half-cell potentiometer, Maxwell reciprocal theorem apparatus, two and three hinged arch apparatus, suspension bridge apparatus, pin jointed truss apparatus, elastic properties of deflected beam apparatus, behaviour of columns and struts apparatus, elastically coupled beam apparatus and unsymmetrical bending apparatus. At present, the laboratory is equipped with two servo-controlled hydraulic testing machines, a 1000 kN universal testing machine UTM , and a 3000 kN compression testing machine CTM . Additionally, the laboratory has an 8-channel universal amplifier HBK make, a 100 kN Flexure Testing Machine FTM , and various other equipment suitable for undergraduate level laboratory work. The laboratory also has multiple software platforms for numerical modelling and simulation such as ABAQUS, STAAD Pro and SAP. 500kN Compression Testing Machine 100 kN Fatigue Testing Machine Universal 8 Channel Data Acquisition System DAQ Thyristor Based Furnace 500kN Compression Testing Machine The 500 kN High Force Fatigue Testing Machines are servo-hydraulic systems equipped with a large T-slot bed and a high-stiffness four-column load frame, specifically designed for high-force testing of materials and components. These machines are widely used for both static and fatigue testing in applications such as tension compression fracture, fatigue crack propagation, high-cycle fatigue HCF , elastomer property evaluation, and flexural strength analysis. Common test specimens include metals, wire ropes, rebar, rails, concrete, and aerospace components. Operating in stroke control mode, the system maintains the load within user-defined limits during specimen loading. Key features include a 150 mm 75mm actuator stroke with 0.1 mm resolution, capability for cyclic operation, customizable hydraulic and dynamic performance to suit specific applications, and an adjustable upper crosshead with hydraulic lifts and locks for quick and easy daylight adjustment. 100 kN Fatigue Testing Machine The 100 kN Series servo-hydraulic test systems are designed to meet nearly all requirements for testing the strength, durability, and toughness of metals, composites, and plastics. These systems are supported by a wide range of transducers, application software, and accessories to accommodate standard testing procedures. Key features include a double-acting servo- hydraulic actuator with force capacities up to 600 kN 22 kip , a high-stiffness, precision-aligned, self-reacting twin- column load frame with the actuator positioned in the lower base or top crosshead, and a usable stroke length of 150 mm 75mm . The system is rated for cyclic operations and includes mechanical, hydraulic, and pneumatic anti-vibration pads for enhanced stability. Users can tailor the hydraulic configuration and dynamic performance to specific application needs. The adjustable upper crosshead is equipped with hydraulic lifts and locks for easy daylighting. The system is compatible with a broad selection of grips, fixtures, chambers, video extensometers, protective shields, and other accessories. Universal 8 Channel Data Acquisition System DAQ The HBM QuantumX MX840B is an advanced 8-channel universal data logger that allows the connection of sensors and transducers based on 17 different technologies across all its channels. With the support of HBMs innovative Plug Measure technology, the module automatically recognizes connected transducers, streamlining setup and ensuring accurate measurements. Each of the eight channels can accommodate a wide range of sensor types, including strain gauges in half or full bridge configurations DC or CF with 4.8 kHz , voltage inputs 100 mV, 10 V, and 60 V , current- fed piezos IEPE ICP , piezoresistive full bridges, thermocouples types K, N, R, S, T, B, E, J, and C , resistance thermometers PT100, PT1000 , resistance up to 5000 Ohm, potentiometric transducers, inductive half or full bridge sensors including LVDTs, and current inputs 20 mA . Additionally, up to four channels support rotary encoders, counters, frequency rpm measurements, and the SSI protocol. The module features a high-resolution 24-bit analog-to-digital converter and offers a sample rate of up to 40 kS s per channel, complemented by active low-pass filters. Renowned for its precision, the MX840B achieves an accuracy class of up to 0.05 , making it ideal for high-performance measurement applications. Thyristor Based Furnace The horizontal muffle furnace is a high- temperature thermal processing unit available in the lab, designed for material heating, sintering, and thermal treatment applications. It features a robust construction with a hinged door for safe and easy access and is mounted on a sturdy mild steel stand with the control panel positioned below for user convenience. The furnace offers a compact working chamber of 250 mm 250 mm 300 mm and can operate at temperatures up to 1100C. It uses durable APM grade Kanthal coils as heating elements and a K-type thermocouple to ensure precise temperature monitoring with 2C accuracy. A programmable PID controller 1 program 9 steps enables accurate temperature control, while a solid-state thyristor regulates power. The chamber is well insulated with a combination of high-temperature bricks and zirconia-blended alumina ceramic fiber blankets, enhancing thermal efficiency and safety. The system operates on a 3-phase power supply 400415 V, 20 A and consumes between 6 to 7.5 kW. Additional features include analog voltage and current meters, high-quality switch gears, and safety mechanisms like a slow-blow fuse and user-settable over-temperature protection. Reinforcement bar locator non- destructive testing instrument Profometer 630 AI Half Cell Potentionmeter Concrete Surface Resistivity Meter Rapid Chloride Permiability Apparatus Ultra Sonic Pulse Velocity Meter 8 Channel Universal Amplifier Three Hinged Arch Apparatus Compression Testing Machine 3000kN Portal Frame Apparatus Portable 3D Truss Concrete VIbration Table Cement Cube Vibrating Machine Universal Testing Machine Flexture Testing Machine Cement Autoclave with Analog pressure gauge and Pressure Controller Stability Chamber Thyristor Based Furnance Accelerated Curing Tank Half Cell Potentionmeter Concrete Permiability Appratus Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Environmental Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Environmental Engineering The Environmental Engineering laboratory is equipped with state-of-the art water quality testing and air quality monitoring instruments along with automatic weather station. The water quality research group is interested in advanced techniques for water treatment, environmental application and implication of nanotechnology. They are also exploring the possibility of application of AI ML based technique in the field of water technology. The air quality experts are working on identification and characterization of air pollution sources. They are also engaged in climate and air pollution modelling using chemistry-climate models which can analyze air quality and associated impacts on climate, human health and vegetation. UV-vis Spectrophotometer UV-vis Spectrophotometer The Thermo Scientific Evolution One Plus UV-Vis Spectrophotometer is a versatile analytical instrument widely used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of samples by measuring the absorption of ultraviolet 190400 nm and visible 400800 nm light which offers variable spectral bandwidths 1.0 nm and 2.0 nm . It operates on the Beer-Lambert Law, where absorbance is proportional to concentration. Being an essential tool in environmental engineering for analyzing water pollutants, soil contamination, and molecular studies, making it ideal for environmental monitoring and research. Its rapid, reagent-free analysis ensures cost-effective and non-destructive testing. With applications in water treatment optimization and ecosystem monitoring, it plays a critical role in sustainable remediation strategies. pH and Conductivity Meter UG Laboratory PG Laboratory PM 2.5 Sampler Automatic Weather Station Gas Analyzers UG-PG Laboratory UV-Visible Spectrophotometer Air Quality Monitoring Lab Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Geotechnical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Geotechnical Engineering The geotechnical engineering lab is well equipped with different basic and advanced lab equipments such as direct shear test equipment, consolidometer, vane shear test equipment, CBR, etc. and cyclic triaxial test which is a more generalised and advanced shear strength evaluation equipment that can be used to study any type of soils, with different drainage condition, under both static and dynamic loading. Apart from teaching, the different research groups of the lab are addressing key problems pertaining to real-life scenarios, such as sand dune migration and mitigation studies, monopile foundations for offshore wind turbines in seismicallyactive and liquefiable soil regions, stability of geotechnical structures during extreme shift in surface temperature while using geosynthetics, etc. We are also actively exploring the application of AI ML in the field of geotechnical engineering. Stress Path Triaxial Test Apparatus Ground Penetration Radar 350 MHz Stress Path Triaxial Test Apparatus The stress path triaxial system is a valuable tool in geotechnical and civil engineering, used to understand soil behaviour under controlled stress conditions. One critical application is in the design of foundations and retaining structures, where understanding the soil response to loading helps engineers predict settlement, bearing capacity, and potential failure modes. By simulating site-specific stress conditions, the system enables more accurate modelling of how soils react to construction loads. In embankment and dam construction, the stress path triaxial system is used to assess the risk of shear failure during different construction stages or seismic loading. It also plays a crucial role in slope stability analysis, especially in identifying progressive failure mechanisms under varying drainage conditions. Moreover, in underground excavations like tunnels, the system helps simulate stress redistribution around the cavity and guides the selection of appropriate support systems. For oil and gas or mining operations, the technique aids in evaluating reservoir compaction and subsidence behaviour. By tracing the path of stresses during loading and unloading, engineers can optimize designs for safety, cost-efficiency, and longevity, especially in complex soil environments or projects with high geotechnical risks. Ground Penetration Radar 350 MHz Ground Penetrating Radar GPR is a non-destructive geophysical method widely used in engineering for the detection and mapping of underground features. One key application is utility locating, where GPR accurately determines the position and depth of underground metallic and non-metallic utilities such as pipes, cables, and ducts. This prevents accidental damage during excavation and supports effective planning in urban development. GPR is extensively employed in civil engineering projects including highways, bridges, tunnels, and railway tracks, for assessing subsurface conditions, identifying voids, delaminations, and structural weaknesses. In geological and archaeological surveys, GPR helps in identifying natural layers, cavities, and buried artifacts without disturbing the ground. Advanced systems like the UtilityScan Pro by GSSI, integrated with the SIR 4000 control unit and a 350 MHz antenna, can investigate depths of up to 12 meters, making it ideal for both shallow and deep subsurface applications. Additionally, the Radan 7 analysis software enhances data interpretation through advanced visualization and filtering capabilities, enabling precise mapping of subsurface structures. Vibratory Sieve Shaker GPR Consolidation Test Equipment Earth Resistivity Meter Cyclic Triaxial Test Equipment Digital Triaxial Apparatus Direct Shear Test, UCS Test, and Sample Extruder Soil Nutrient Meter Stress Path Triaxial Apparatus Wind Tunnel Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Geological Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Geological Engineering The Geological Engineering lab is developing new energy geo-technologies for hydrocarbon production, studying emergent geo-energy solutions and storage, and devising the application of geological materials in cross-disciplinary engineering applications. We apply fundamental concepts in geomechanics and mechanics of porous media, engineering geology principles, lab-based experiments, and advanced numerical simulations to understand the underlying processes of various in geomaterials. Types of equipment available for teaching: Rock Drilling Machine Rock Cutting and Grinding Apparatus Brazilian Tensile Strength Measurement Apparatus Point Load Index Tester Hand-operated Rock Shear Strength Measurement Apparatus Rock Permeability Measurement Apparatus Cerchar Index Measurement Apparatus Slake Durability Index Tester Apart from them, we also use the following types of equipment from other laboratories for teaching: Universal Compressive Testing Machine Ultrasonic Velocity Measurement Apparatus Schmidt Hammer Fully Automatic Rock Triaxial Apparatus Fully Automatic Rock Triaxial Apparatus Overview and Working Principle The fully automatic rock triaxial apparatus is an advanced laboratory instrument used to evaluate the mechanical behavior of rocks under simulated in-situ stress conditions. It is essential for various applications in rock mechanics, geotechnical engineering, tunneling, mining, and petroleum reservoir studies. This apparatus helps determine critical rock properties such as compressive strength, cohesion, internal friction angle, Youngs modulus, and Poissons ratio with high accuracy. The system comprises several key components. At its core is the triaxial cell, a high-pressure chamber that houses the cylindrical rock specimen and applies uniform confining pressure using hydraulic oil or gas. The axial load frame features a servo-controlled actuator that delivers vertical stress to the specimen. The pressure controller regulates cell pressure. The automatic data acquisition system captures real-time measurements of load, displacement, pressure, and strain with high precision. For accurate deformation measurement, the sample is equipped with sensors such as strain gauges and LVDTs Linear Variable Differential Transformers . The test begins with sample preparation, where a cylindrical rock coretypically 3854 mm in diameter with a height-to-diameter ratio of approximately 2:1is encased in a rubber jacket and placed inside the triaxial cell. Confining pressure is then applied to simulate the rock's natural environment, similar to conditions found deep underground. After this, axial stress is applied at a controlled rate by the actuator, either under constant confining pressure conventional triaxial test or with varying pressures true triaxial test . The system monitors the specimen continuously, recording parameters such as stress, strain, and pore pressure until the rock fails. Finally, the recorded data is analyzed to generate results like the Mohr-Coulomb failure envelope, elastic constants, and strength criteria of the rock. The fully automatic system offers several benefits, including high precision and repeatability, minimal human error, time efficiency, and real-time data logging, making it a preferred choice for modern rock testing laboratories. Core Cutting and Grinding Machine Brazilian Index Tester and Point Load Index Tester Hand-operated Rock Shear Strength Measurement Apparatus Slake Durability Index Tester Muffle Furnace Cerchar Apparatus Core Drilling Machine Rock Permeability Measurement Device Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Transportation Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Transportation Engineering Transportation Engineering lab is well equipped with the basic as well as advance equipments such as Marshall Stability Test Apparatus, Rotational Viscoemeter, Cannon Manning Viscoemeter, Asphalt mix theoretical density meter, Humidity chamber, Rolling Thin Film Oven, Automatic Marshall Compactor etc. Research groups in this domain focus on the topics such as Pavement Analysis; Pavement Design; Sustainable Pavement Materials, Traffic flow theory; Macroscopic and Microscopic modelling of traffic flow; Connected and autonomous vehicles; Dynamic Traffic Assignment, Intelligent Transportation System etc. Wheel Rut Tracker Wheel Rut Tracker The Matest SmarTracker Multi-Wheel Hamburg Wheel Tracker is a high-performance testing system used to assess the rutting and moisture susceptibility of asphalt mixtures under controlled conditions. Compliant with EN 12697-22 and AASHTO T324 standards, it features dual independent wheels for simultaneous wet and dry testing, precise temperature regulation, and automated data acquisition. Its advanced design ensures accurate measurement of rut depth, creep slope, and stripping inflection points, making it an essential tool for evaluating long-term pavement performance in laboratory settings. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Computational Laboratory Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Computational Laboratory Number of Workstations: 4 2 running Ubuntu and 2 running Windows 11 Specification of every workstation: Intel Xeon Silver CPU 16 cores , 187 GB RAM, NVIDIA Quadro Graphics There are 39desktops available in the computation lab. These computers can be availed by research scholar for academic research purposes. Software License procured by department institute: MATLAB, Mathematica, ArcGIS, Rocscience, Plaxix 2D, SAP 2000 ultimate, MIKE 11, Abaqus, ANSYS, PSCAD, STAAD Pro, PTV VISSIM, Solidworks, Q-GIS. Computatiuonal Lab also has an HPC Server. Computational Lab Computational Lab Computational Lab Computational Lab Computational Lab Desktops Computational Lab Desktops Computational Lab Computational Lab Workstation Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Water Resource Engineering Laboratory Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Water Resource Engineering Laboratory DISCHARGE OVER NOTCHES APPARATUS ENERGY EQUATION IN CONVERGENT AND DIVERGENT TUBE WITH BASE MODULE CONVERGENT AND DIVERGENT FLOWMETER ENERGY LOSSES IN PIPING ELEMENTS FREE AND FORCED VORTEX APPARATUS IMPACT OF JET APPARATUS METACENTRIC HEIGHT EXPERIMENT ORIFICE PLATE FLOWMETER VERIFICATION OF DARCY WEISBACK EQUATION IN STRAIGHT CONDUITS 2 VISUALIZATION OF STREAMLINES WITH BASE MODULES Determination of Critical Reynolds Number with base Module PIPE FRICTION IN LAMINAR AND TURBULENT FLOWS WITH BASE MODULE FLOW OVER WEIR APAPRATUS OPEN CHANNEL Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

B.Tech Student Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! B.Tech Student S No Name Roll No 1. Abhilasha Bidwaiker B21CI . Akash B21CI . Ameen Rizvi B21CI . Ankit Kumar B21CI . Arnav Himanshu Shah B21CI . Arsad Khan B21CI . Aryan Sanjay Jain B21CI . Bhanu Pratap Mandovra B21CI . Chaitanya Ghodmare B21CI . Dikshant Gupta B21CI . Divyang Deepak Palshetkar B21CI . Divyansh Jain B21CI . Harendra Pal Singh Tomar B21CI . Jason Daniel B21CI . Jesika Rai B21CI . Karina Choudhary B21CI . Kunal Alok Tiwari B21CI . Lamdade Sainath Ashok B21CI . Mamta Kumari B21CI . Manoj Khichar B21CI . Manoj Solara B21CI . Mohit Bansal B21CI . Ms.Disha Khandelwal B21CI . Om Nirne B21CI . Praveen Kumar B21CI . Prince Sonker B21CI . Pulipati Surya Sai Satwik B21CI . Rajkumar Mina B21CI . Rifa Khan B21CI . Rohan Choudhary B21CI . Ruchit Kochar B21CI . Samarpan Kumar B21CI . Siddharth Chauhan B21CI . Tekram Meena B21CI . Utkarsh Srivastava B21CI . Vikash Kumar B21CI . Virender Singh Parasariya B21CI . Vishal Patel B21CI S No Name Roll No 1. Abhimanyu Bansal B22CI . Abhishek Singh B22CI . Agastya Singh B22CI . Alok Godara B22CI . Ankush Choudhary B22CI . Ashish Kumar Gahlan B22CI . Avanti Mittal B22CI . Bhawana Nehra B22CI . Chhotu Meena B22CI . Deekshant Singh Rajawat B22CI . Deepak Singh B22CI . Devika Singh B22CI . Devraj Singh B22CI . Dhruv Shivhare B22CI . Harsh Kumar B22CI . Hitesh Singh Parihar B22CI . Ishaan Pandey B22CI . Ishita Sancheti B22CI . Jagdish Suthar B22CI . Kamal B22CI . Kuldeep B22CI . Manas Dwivedi B22CI . Manas Yadav B22CI . Manda Pranathi B22CI . Neha Choudhary B22CI . Hasya Sunilkumar Patel B22CI . Palash Khatod B22CI . Paras Kumar B22CI Poras Singh B22CI . Prathuri Vinoothna B22CI . Prince Choudhary B22CI . Pronab Mondal B22CI . Pujit Jha B22CI . Rakesh Godara B22CI . Rhythm Sharma B22CI . Rishabh Acharya B22CI . Ritesh Fageria B22CI . Shubham Kumar B22CI . Somendra Singh Meena B22CI . Soumyajyoti Mondal B22CI . Suraj Sunil Chothe B22CI . Swasti Bahetee B22CI . Tranum B22CI . Unisha Tirkey B22CI . Vaibhav Singhal B22CI . Vineet Kumar B22CI . Vinit Thakur B22CI . Wasim Akram B22CI . Jain Mohanshi Surendrakumar B22CI . Piyush Sharma B22CI . Marigesh B22CI S No Name Roll No 1. Abhijeet Kumar B23CI . Abhinav B23CI . Anil Kumar Mina B23CI . Arman Kashyap B23CI . Arnav Kataria B23CI . Ashwani Pratap Singh B23CI . Ayush B23CI . Ayush Kumar B23CI . ChandrugondaSushanth B23CI . Chaudhari KrinaChetankumar B23CI . Danie George John B23CI . Devan Saini B23CI . Devansh Verma B23CI . Dhairya Arora B23CI . Dhruv Sharma B23CI . Jenish Thakkar B23CI . Karuturi Sumasri B23CI . Kavita B23CI . Kiran Sanjiv Patil B23CI . Kotireddy Vedamrutha B23CI . Lagna Priyadarshini B23CI . Mayank Sharma B23CI . Monika Mahawar B23CI . Nagargoje TusharRanjeet B23CI . Naveen Choudhary B23CI . Nikhil PahlajkumarThawani B23CI . Polaki Avinash B23CI . Prince Vijaybhan Yadav B23CI . Priyanshu Meena B23CI . Ram Prakash B23CI . Ramcharan B23CI . Samarth SubhashSushir B23CI . Sandeep B23CI . Sidharth Kumar Bhagat B23CI . Somya Jangir B23CI . Sparsh Gupta B23CI . Subham Agrawal B23CI . Tirupathi Yashaswini B23CI . Tushar Gusiya B23CI . Urmila B23CI . Utkarsh Bundela B23CI . Vaibhav Singh B23CI . Varchasva Raj Saxena B23CI . Vinayak Purohit B23CI . Vishrut Aditya Ratnoo B23CI . Yampati Deepika B23CI . Yenage Sejal Vinod B23CI . Yuvraj Kumar B23CI . Agastya Singh B23CI S No Name Roll No 1 Abhinav Naithani B24CI1001 2 Akshay Kumar Meena B24CI1002 3 Aryaveer Singh B24CI1003 4 Atum Tato B24CI1005 5 Bhavyansh Sharma B24CI1006 6 Buddhi Prakash Mali B24CI1007 7 Chaitanya Singh B24CI1008 8 Chittanoor Sri Raghava B24CI1009 9 Daksh Khod B24CI Divaksh Arora B24CI Gaurang Goyal B24CI Harsh Raj B24CI Harshal Joshi B24CI Haswanth Rama Sai Udatha B24CI Himanshu Jain B24CI Ishita Tyagi B24CI Juyee Shirkhedkar B24CI Kakad Prajwal Digambar B24CI Kartik Jain B24CI Kolapkar Vipul Kishor B24CI Kondagadapu Mrudhula B24CI Kummithi Sumanth Reddy B24CI Mahesh Kumar B24CI Mahi Gupta B24CI Manchala Adithya B24CI Manish Kumar B24CI Manvendra Ankoliya B24CI Markad Tejas Vilas B24CI Medha Kohli B24CI Mudit Kumar Singh B24CI Mugdha Jitendra Ghodke B24CI Nakshatra Cial B24CI Nikhil Meena B24CI Nishant Sharma B24CI Nitesh Kumar B24CI Omprakash B24CI Palak Meena B24CI Panik B24CI Pankaj Rain B24CI Parekh Parth Mayankbhai B24CI Parv Dixit B24CI Piyush Singh Bhati B24CI Pranjal Shukla B24CI Punit B24CI Saipriya B24CI Samruddha Satish Jadhav B24CI Sarse Rohan Madhav B24CI Shashank Mangal B24CI Shaurya Agarwal B24CI Shrey Vishwakarma B24CI Utkarsh Bansal B24CI Vadher Navya Jeetendrakumar B24CI Vikas Choudhary B24CI Vivek Shekhawat B24CI Yug Bhatt B24CI Devan Saini B24CI1201 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

M.Tech Student Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! M.Tech Student S No Name Roll No Stream 1. Amar Kumar M20CI052 Environmental Engineering 2. David Konwar M20CI055 Environmental Engineering 3. Kartik Sharma M20CI058 Environmental Engineering 4. Surendra Kumar M20CI062 Environmental Engineering 5. Ankit Kumar Maurya M20CI053 Environmental Engineering 6. Aman Kumar Meena M20CI051 Environmental Engineering 7. Niketa Kumari M20CI060 Environmental Engineering 8. Md Mustafa Ali M20CI059 Environmental Engineering 9. Rampunit Kumar M20CI061 Environmental Engineering 10. Dhanya Shah M20CI056 Environmental Engineering 11. Jahnavi Saggurthi M20CI057 Environmental Engineering 12. Deepak Manihar M20CI002 Energy 13. Kandukuri Venkata Subrahmanya Srimukh Babu M20CI003 Energy 14. Arya P S M20CI012 Energy 15. Ravi Kumar M20CI005 Energy 16. Pallavi Sikha M20CI004 Energy 17. Shailesh Bagde M20CI007 Energy 18. Shivanshu Shekhar M20CI008 Energy 19. Deepak Manihar M20CI002 Energy 2021 S No Name Roll No Stream 1. Ajay Bharath Rathi M21CI051 Environmental Engineering 2. Ashish Kumar M21CI053 Environmental Engineering 3. Bhopender Singh Chundawat M21CI054 Environmental Engineering 4. Sayan Banerjee M21CI057 Environmental Engineering 5. Uma Varshney M21CI058 Environmental Engineering 6. Vijesh Prajapat M21CI059 Environmental Engineering 7. Vikas Meena M21CI060 Environmental Engineering 8. Vishal Tak M21CI061 Environmental Engineering 9. Tej Sushant Kulkarni M21CI064 Environmental Engineering 10. Abhimanyu Dhyani M21CI001 Energy 11. Mohammed Hatim Khan M21CI005 Energy 12. Mohsin Jamil Md Nasir M21CI007 Energy 13. Alok Verma M21CI008 Energy 14. Ahsan Ul Haq M21CI010 Energy 2022 S No Name Roll No Stream 1. Abhishek Jain M22CI051 Environmental Engineering 2. Abhishek Kumar M22CI052 Environmental Engineering 3. Avadhoota Manideep M22CI053 Environmental Engineering 4. Dipsubha Deb M22CI054 Environmental Engineering 5. Sundari Manoj M22CI057 Environmental Engineering 6. Deep Ratilal Gaudani M22CI058 Environmental Engineering 7. Deepanshu M22CI059 Environmental Engineering 8. Saurabh M22CI060 Environmental Engineering 9. Janhavi sharma M22CI002 Energy 10. Lokesh Meena M22CI003 Energy 11. Mehendra Kumar Rai M22CI004 Energy 12. Sumit Devidas Kale M22CI005 Energy 13. Shruthi Verma M22CI007 Energy 14. Ratul Panja M22CI009 Energy 15. Shailendra Chauhan M22CI010 Energy 2023 S No Roll No Name Stream 1. M23CIE001 Aravinda Kumar V Environmental Engineering 2. M23CIE002 Avinandan Jana Environmental Engineering 3. M23CIE003 Jai Narayan Tungariya Environmental Engineering 4. M23CIE004 Preeti Mondal Environmental Engineering 5. M23CIE005 Rameshwar Meena Environmental Engineering 6. M23CIE006 Ritesh Yadav Environmental Engineering 7. M23CIE007 Utkarsh Porwal Environmental Engineering 8. M23CIE008 Vijender Singh Environmental Engineering 9. M23CIE009 Yogesh Kumar Prajapat Environmental Engineering 10. M23CIN002 Anubhav Naresh Energy 11. M23CIN003 Arpit Patra Energy 12. M23CIN004 Rahul Jatolia Energy 13. M23CIN005 Siddhanth Gautam Energy 14. M23CIN006 Vishal Santosh Agrawal Energy 2024 S No Roll No Name Stream 1 Dileep Kumar Nagar M24CIE001 Environmental Engineering 2 Pradeep Sankhla M24CIE002 Environmental Engineering 3 Raghav Gupta M24CIE003 Environmental Engineering 4 Ram Kunwar Khokhar M24CIE004 Environmental Engineering 5 Vivek Kumar Goyal M24CIE005 Environmental Engineering 6 Vivek Singh M24CIE006 Environmental Engineering 7 Praveen Ojha M24CIE007 Environmental Engineering 8 Sanjay Kumar Choudhary M24CIE008 Environmental Engineering 9 Deepali Moondra M24CIN001 Energy 10 Gaurav Kumar Dwivedi M24CIN002 Energy 11 Sahdev Khoja M24CIN003 Energy 12 Simran M24CIN004 Energy 13 Sourabh Koli M24CIN005 Energy 14 Suraj Singh Gahlot M24CIN006 Energy 15 Vishal Bharti M24CIN007 Energy 16 A Mahanthesh M24CIN008 Energy 17 Pathan Mujahid Najekhan M24CIN009 Energy Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Ph.D Student Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Ph.D Student S No Name Email Roll No Qualification Research Area Supervisor s 1 Satish Kumar Adari P20CI202 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : JNTU, Kakinada 2017 Soil dynamics, Seismic liquefaction, Monopile foundations Dr. Pradeep Kumar Dammala 2 Anand Kumar P21CI001 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT, Patna 2021 Behaviour of Reinforced Concrete Structural Systems under Fire Conditions Dr. P. Ravi Prakash 3 Ananya Srivastava P21CI002 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : MMU, Gorakhpur 2021 Rock Mechanics, DEM, Engineering Geology Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, Dr. P. Ravi Prakash 4 Ashish Gupta P21CI003 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Jalandhar 2017 Atmospheric science and Air pollution Dr. Deepika Bhattu 5 Keshav Saini P21CI005 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Jalandhar 2021 Thin-walled Structures Dr. Tekcham Gishan Singh 6 Koduru Sandeep P21CI006 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT, Uttarakhand 2020 Sustainable pavements, cold mix asphalt, pavement materials, analysis, and design of highways Dr. Bhupendra Singh, Dr. Ankit Kathuria 7 Mohit Singh Parihar P21CI007 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Tiruchirappalli 2021 Pavement Materials Dr. Bhupendra Singh 8 Santosh Bisoyi P21CI009 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT, Agartala 2021 Structural Health Monitoring and Prognostics Dr. Amit Kumar Rathi 9 Shahiq Ahmad Wani P21CI010 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Srinagar 2021 Travel behaviour, Sustainable Transportation, Travel psychology and economics, Travel Equity Dr. Ranju Mohan 10 Soibam Monika Devi P21CI011 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : MIT 2020 Thin-walled Structures Dr. Tekcham Gishan Singh 11 Mayank Tiwari P22CI002 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : MANIT, Bhopal 2022 Hydroclimatic Extremes Dr. Saran Aadhar 12 Prabhanjan Prasoon P22CI004 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Uttarakhand 2022 Discontinuum modeling of masonry Dr. P. Ravi Prakash 13 Sumit P22CI003 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Kurukshetra 2018 Pavement Engineering and Materials Dr. Bhupendra Singh 14 Ankit Kumar Maurya P22CI001 M.Tech. Infrastructure Engineering : IIT Jodhpur 2022 Steel Structures Dr. Tekcham Gishan Singh 15 Tanmaya M B P22CI201 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : BEC, Bagalkot 2022 Application of geosynthetics in soil improvement, soil stabilization Dr. Aali Pant 16 Anuj Shrivastava P23CI0002 M.Sc. Atmospheric Sciences : NIT Rourkela 2023 TBD Dr. Deepika Bhattu 17 Kaiser Roy P23CI0003 M.Tech. Water Resources : NIT Hamirpur 2023 Hydroclimatology Dr. Mayank Suman 18 Naveen Sharma P23CI0005 M.Tech. Geotechnical Engineering : NIT Warangal 2023 Geological engineering Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy 19 Shradha Sharma P23CI0006 M.Tech. Environmental Science : Thapar Institute 2023 Soil Stabilization and Fertility Enhancement in Arid Regions; Nanoparticle Fate and Transport Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury 20 Anish Sharma P23CI0007 M.Tech. Civil Engineering GND Engineering College, Ludhiana 2019 Geological Engineering Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy 21 Yengkhom Tarun Singh P23CI0008 B.Tech: Tezpur University 2022 Steel Structure Dr. Tekcham Gishan Singh 22 Anuj Bind P23CI0009 M.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Warangal 2023 GEOPOLYMER, SOIL STABILIZATION, WIND TUNNEL Dr. Pradeep Kumar Dammala 23 Kanika P23CI0012 M.Tech. Transportation Engineering : Punjabi University 2023 Pavement Engineering Dr. Bhupendra Singh 24 Falak Khan P23CI0013 M.Tech. Earthquake Science : IIT ISM Dhanbad 2023 TBD Dr. Pradeep Kumar Dammala 25 Souvik Panda P23CI0010 M.Sc. Mathematics : Visva Bharti 2023 Fluid Mechanics Prof. Subhasish Dey, Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh 26 Yashwant Choudhary P23CI0011 M.E. Civil Engineering : MBM Engineering College 2023 Wastewater Treatment and Management Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury 27 Mohsin Jamil Md Nasir P23CI0004 M.Tech. Energy Engineering IIT Jodhpur 2023 Building information modeling based Life cycle assessment Dr. Mayank Suman, Dr. P. Ravi Prakash 28 Akash Verma P24CI0001 M.Tech. Structural Engineering : NIT Jamshedpur 2024 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : Haldia Institute of Technology, Haldia, West Bengal 2022 Metamaterials Dr. Shuvajit Mukherjee 29 Kevin Somra P24CI0002 B.Tech: Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, Katra, J K 2024 Wastewater Treatment Dr. Monika Dubey 30 Lalit Bahal P24CI0003 M.Tech. Environmental Engineering NIT Hamirpur 2023 B.Tech. Civil Engineering MGGEC Jeori Shimla 2020 Water Quality Assessment Processes, Contaminant Fate and Transport Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury 31 Nivedita Kumari P24CI0004 M.Tech. Structural Engineering : NIT Jamshedpur 2024 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : DCE Darbangha 2022 Computational Mechanics Dr. Sanhita Das 32 Shivanshi Yadav P24CI0008 M.Sc. Geoinformatics Joint education program between IIRS, ISRO, Dehradun and University of Twente, The Netherlands 2023 B.Tech Agricultural Engineering Choudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University CCSHAU , Hisar, Haryana 2021 The Mechanism of Flash Floods Dr. Mayank Suman 33 Tushar Singhania P24CI0009 M.Tech. Earthquake Science Engineering IIT ISM Dhanbad 2024 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : GGSIPU, Delhi 2020 Aerodynamics and wind-based energy Infrastructures Dr. Pradeep Kumar Dammala 34 Anishka P S P24CI0201 M.Tech Structural Engineering College Of Engineering , Trivandrum, Kerala 2024 B.Tech Civil Tkm College Of Engineering, Kollam, Kerala 2022 Cement Chemistry, Characterisation of materials Dr. Sreejith Krishnan 35 Mohd Uzair P24CI0203 Masters in Planning Urban Regional AMU Aligarh 2024 B Tech Civil Engineering Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi 2022 Traffic Modelling Dr. Ranju Mohan 36 Richu George Varghese P24CI0204 M.Tech Structural Engineering and Construction Management Saintgits College of Engineering, Kerala 2017 B.Tech Civil Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Kerala 2014 Civil Engineering Materials, Concrete Dr. Sreejith Krishnan Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

M.Tech - Ph.D Student Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! M.Tech - Ph.D Student S No Name Email Roll No Qualification Research area Supervisor s 1 Aparna Singh D20CI001 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : G.B. Pant University, Pantnagar Rock Mechanics and Engineering Geology Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, Dr. Angan Sengupta 2 Pranav Saraswat D20CI002 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : G.B. Pant University, Pantnagar 2019 Pavements and Materials Dr. Bhupendra Singh 3 Sumaja Kolli D20CI003 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : Shiv Nadar University, Greater Noida 2020 Aeolian Soil Dynamics, Sustainable Geotechnics, Computational Fluid Dynamics Dr. Pradeep Kumar Dammala 4 Shubham Dhaka D20CI051 B.E. Civil Engineering : Thapar Institute of Engineering 2019 Atmospheric Modelling Dr. Amit Sharma 5 Vijesh Prajapat D21CI051 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : MBM Engineering College, Jodhpur 2021 Groundwater quality assessment and treatment: Design of nano modified ceramic filters for fluoride removal Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury 6 Shashank Shekhar D22CI051 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Raipur 2021 Chemistry and Climate Modelling Dr. Amit Sharma 7 Saurabh D22CI052 B.Tech. Civil Engineering : NIT Patna 2018 Aerosol Source Apportionment Dr. Deepika Bhattu Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Alumni Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Alumni Coming soon... Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Contact Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Contact Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 342030 Jodhpur District eMail: office civil at iitj dot ac dot in Phone: Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Recruitment Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! F Faculty Members P Post Doctoral Fellows T Technical Staff Members P Project Staff Members Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . arrow downward

Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Civil and Infrastructure Engineering The rapidly urbanizing society and increasing quality of life demand reliable and intelligent infrastructure systems which are capable of catering to the societal needs at different scales from an individual to the community level.Consequently, the civil and infrastructure industry has undergone profound changes and is constantly evolving. However, the new-age designs and innovations in the civil and infrastructure industry can only be driven by a group of engineering graduates having multidisciplinary training and a sound understanding of emerging technologies. The Department of Civiland Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur esatablished in January 2020. We started academics programs in the academic year . The department offers unique programs that incorporate and integrate the elements of conventional civil engineering with advanced transformative technologies such as artificial intelligence AI , cyber-physical-systems CPS , digital twins DT , and automated management and information systems. Additionally, a major thrust is also planned on the design, implementation, and maintenance of large-scale integrated infrastructure systems across different domains. The focus areas of the department are : Energy and Environment Building Sciences, Safety, and Services Applications of AI, IoT and CPS in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Smart and Integrated Infrastructure Urban Architecture and Planning Construction Technology and Management Transportation Engineering Structural Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Water resources Engineering Engineering Geology Vision The Department strives to be an internationally renowned centre of excellence in education, research, and innovation with a major focus on sustainability and digitalization of infrastructure. Missions Develop unique courses in the field of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering through advanced UG and PG programs with a multidisciplinary perspective. Establish high quality teaching and research facilities in the areas of smart, resilient, and sustainable infrastructure engineering to foster the needs of society. Promote consilient research through application of AI ML, cyber-physical-systems, digital twin and advanced visualization in the areas of Energy, Environment, Transportation, and Construction. Promote innovative and entrepreneurial activities through intellectual property generation and transfer. Nurture the potential of students to become future leaders in the Civil Engineering industry for leadership achievements, scientific breakthroughs and social welfare. Quick Access Department Brochure 5.1 MB Academic Calendar IITJ at a Glance 2024 English IITJ at a Glance 2024 Hindi Highlights View all highlights Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Hydrodynamics of turbulent flow in channels with submerged flexible vegetation canopy in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Is Congratulations to Dr. Sreejith Krishnan for publishing a research article titled Co-calcination of kaolinitic clay and green liquor dregs to produce supplementary cementitious materials in Journal Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Effects of U-burrow bioirrigation on turbulence characteristics in Journal of Hydraulic Research Congratulations to Mr. Abhishek Jain and his supervisor, Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, and Co-Supervisor Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury for publishing an article titled Comparative efficacy of raw and modified Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Shallow water hydrodynamics: Surge propagation and sill-controlled flows in Physics of Fluids Vol.36, Issue 12 Congratulations to Mr. Shahiq Ahmad Wani and his supervisor, Dr. Ranju Mohan, for publishing an article titled Digital payment adoption in public transportation: Mediating role of mode choice segment Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled The universal two-thirds law of pipeline scour in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4 Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Hydrodynamics of a rigid submerged vegetated flow in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4 News Newsletter View all news 1 Ph.D. Admissions Result AY 2025-26 Semester II Dec Shortlisted Candidates for written Test and or Interview of Ph.D. Program AY 2025-26 sem II 3 Ph.D. Admission Re-open Announcement 4 List of candidates Provisionally Shortlisted for M.Tech-Part Time Online Program Bridge Engineering 5 Result of Ph.D. Admissions Second Round, AY 2025-26 Semester I July 2025 Latest Events View all events Mar One-day workshop on Sustainability of Cement and Concrete in the Indian Context Jul Congratulations Dr. Bhupendra for SERB International Research Experience SIRE for the year Jan A Indo-UK workshop on Design of Foundation Systems for Offshore Wind Turbines - Indian Perspective Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Faculty Positions IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to Faculty Positions Portal Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur invites online applications from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for full-time faculty positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor to conduct teaching and research in the following Departments and Schools. Departments Bioscience Bioengineering Chemistry Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Physics Engineering Aerospace Engineering Economics Energy and Automotive Engineering Environment Sustainability Engineering Schools School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science SAIDE School of Design SOD School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Management Entrepreneurship SME The Institute cordially invites interested candidates to consider choosing IIT Jodhpur as their venue to realize. their dreams to serve the nation, through their competencies that would help to address the technology grand challenges of the nation. Use the following link to apply Click Here To Apply Online Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Bioscience Bioengineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Bioscience Bioengineering The Department of Bioscience Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur, established in 2009 offers a B.Tech. program in Bioengineering, an M.Tech. and M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree programs in Bioscience Bioengineering. Our programs are uniquely designed to inspire innovations in biotechnology, engineering, and medicine from an understanding of biological systems. This capacity building is assuming importance in the present times for providing solutions to societal problems in trans-disciplinary frameworks. A major focus is on neurosciences and neurodegenerative disorders, mechanistic biology, environmental and medical microbiology, computational biology, precision health, and bioprospecting for novel molecules and bio-actives from natural resources of the Thar ecoregion. We also offer a competitive Ph.D. program to inculcate scientific temper, independent thinking, and skillsets for scientific entrepreneurship. We encourage and provide avenues for the participation of bioengineering graduates with diverse engineering disciplines to develop technologies for: Affordable and Smart Healthcare Clean Environment Precision Medicine and Health Sustainable and Affordable Energy Faculties at the department with wide-ranging expertise, conduct fundamental and translational research in focus areas that are contemporary and aligned to major sustainable development goals. We are passionate about research and actively communicate our science through regular outreach programs. Message from the Head of the Department Assoc. Prof. Neha Jain Acting Head BSBE Email: Phone: Bioscience and Bioengineering are pivotal to India's growth. driving innovation and advancing technology in healthcare. Agriculture and environmental sustainability. The Department of Bioscience Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur plays a key role in implementing diverse advanced biological research areas within these fields. with a strong focus on fostering research and development R D and entrepreneurship. By offering a multidisciplinary platform that integrates cutting-edge research in drug discovery, genomics, and affordable and integrative precision healthcare solutions. Big Data Biology and bioinformatics. In addition. The department actively promotes entrepreneurship by providing incubation support, facilitating industry collaborations, and encouraging the growth of startup ventures in biosciences. With access to advanced research facilities and guidance from expert faculty members, students can transform their ideas into practical, marketable solutions, benefiting industries such as healthcare, agriculture, and biomanufacturing. BSBE Department, IIT Jodhpur, emphasizes interdisciplinary research in the near future, which may also align with national initiatives like the BioE3 policy to promote R D, commercialization, and the establishment of bioeconomy hubs. The curriculum is thoughtfully designed to meet the diverse aspirations of students entering the fields of biosciences and bioengineering. This approach not only strengthens the academic peers ecosystem but also creates employment opportunities and enhances societal well-being. Highlights View all highlights Dr. Priyanka Singh has won the prestigious and competitive BRNS-Young Scientist Research Award from the Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India. Congratulations! Dr. Meenu Chhabra and team publishes work on performance evaluation of a photosynthetic microbial fuel cell PMFC using Chlamydomonas reinhardtii at cathode. Congratulations! Dr. Priyanka Singh Selected for INYAS 2025 has been selected for membership in the Indian National Young Academy of Science INYAS Announcement View all announcement 1. Ph.D. admission result AY 2025-26 Semester II 2. Shortlisted Candidates for PhD Admission AY 2025-26, Spring session, Sem-II 3. M.Tech BSBE candidates provisionally shortlisted for admission ,,, 4. Ph.D. BSBE candidates provisionally shortlisted for admission.. Events View all events Jul DESIGNS - Desert EcoSystem Innovations Guided by Natural Selection 31st July 2021 9.30 am Feb International Conference on Bioengineering Solutions for Healthcare, Food, Energy Environment 9-10 April 2021 Feb BSBE Lecture Series Dr. G. Arunkumar 4.00 pm Genomics in Healthcare Services Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :27 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Chemical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Department of Chemical Engineering Translation of molecular information into discovery of new products and processes with Industry 4.0 Vision Mission of the Department To become a globally recognized department of chemical engineering through its contribution in emerging and demand-driven areas with multidisciplinary approach. The Department of Chemical Engineering offers under-graduate B.Tech. and post-graduate M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. programs in chemical engineering. Through the academic programs, the department is making a conscious effort to establish itself as a leading institute in the new genre of chemical engineering education. The program involves traditional courses, emerging areas and specialisations such as process engineering intelligence, molecular engineering and sustainability. In line with the new education policy, B.Tech. Chemical Engineering students will have unique opportunity and flexibility for: Minor in a Management b Entrepreneurship c Data Science Five year B.Tech. M.Tech. MBA One year Engineering Innovation opportunity Traditionally, chemical engineering teaching focuses on subjects like material and energy balance, transport phenomena, thermodynamics, mass transfer, heat transfer, fluid mechanics, chemical reaction engineering, numerical analysis, computational systems, biotechnology, petroleum-petrochemicals, polymers and safety engineering. With the advent of the era of Industry 4.0 in chemical companies, artificial intelligence AI , machine learning ML , data analytics, internet of things IoT , molecular engineering, nano-composites; the discipline is being transformed by the incorporation of new emerging technologies and demand-driven areas. The department is keen on collaboration with industry and academia worldwide. At present, Chemical Engineering Department is sharing its expertise with the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation DDWS , Ministry of Jal Shakti; Defence Research and Development Organisation DRDO , Ministry of Defence; International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA etc. Department has signed MoU with the industries for providing consultancy services. Department is also actively involved in Scientific Social Responsibility SSR through Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA and other societal initiatives. Department has research interest in core and emerging areas; and is looking for faculty members in different areas of chemical engineering. Prospective candidates are encouraged to visit our recruitment page and apply. Highlights View all Highlights Congratulations to Dr. Vikky Anand, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, for being honored as a Young Associate of INAE for the year 2025. . Congratulations to Prof Pradip Kumar Tewari, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, for honoring with the prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award .. Congratulations to Prof Parag Arvind Deshpande, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, for honoring CSI Sistla Kameswari Young Scientist Award - 2020 .. Latest News View all news 1 Provisionally Selected Candidates for the PhD Program January 2026 Session 2 Selected Candidates for the Interview and Written Exam for Admission to the PhD Jan Workshop: Open source molecular visualization techniques for researchers 4 Admission to Ph.D. Program for Autumn, 2025-26 Latest Events View all events Mar Third edition of Chem-E-Sorption 2026 Nov Expert talk interactive session by Prof Rao R Tummala on 15 11 2023 Oct Expert talk by Prof. Sunil Bhagwat, Director, IISER Pune on 21 10 2023 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :17 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Chemistry IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to Department of Chemistry Head's Message A warm welcome to the Department of Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur, which was established in 2015. Since the inception, the department has taken major strides forward in teaching, research and technology development. Our department offers a variety of academic programs including M.Sc. 2 Years , M.Sc. Chemistry -M.Tech. Materials Engineering with Specialization, BS in Chemistry with Specialization 4 years , and Ph.D. programs. We also provide core and elective courses in chemistry and related fields for undergraduate B.Tech. engineering students. The department offers Chemistry courses for 4-year Integrated B.Sc.-B.Ed. Program ITEP , which is in alignment with NEP 2020 to support teacher preparation and foster professional development. Besides teaching, the Department is striving to be acknowledged for excellence in research and technology. Our goal is to foster an environment where everyone can thrive, reach their full potential, and contribute to cutting-edge scientific advancements. We have the latest state of the art basic teaching laboratories and several thematic research laboratories. Our current faculty strength is 19 and they are carrying out research activities in all major areas of chemical sciences, namely, organic synthesis and catalysis, chemical biology, main group chemistry and organometallics, nanomaterials, spectroscopy and chemical dynamics, biophysical chemistry and computational chemistry. The cutting-edge research in the thrust areas by our faculty members are published in international peer-reviewed journals of well-repute. In short IIT Jodhpur Chemistry department is where Chemistry meets Technology through Collaboration, Communication and Cooperation. I encourage the future aspirants to get enrolled at IIT Jodhpur and wish you all the very best in your future endeavours. Thank you. The thrust areas in which research is being actively carried are given below. Quick Links Ph.D Admission January 2026 Apply Now Course Type For Online Registration Of M.Sc. Program 470 KB LHB Booking CDIF Equipment Booking Department Seminar Hall Booking External users: sample analysis services 9.8 MB Latest News View all news Samapika Sahu, a research scholar under the supervision of Prof. Ananya Debnath, has been awarded Third Prize in the Chemical Sciences category at the SARANSH Thesis Competition Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry RSC Highlights View all highlights C-H alkylation of heterocycles via light-mediated palladium catalysis. S. Senapati, S. K. Hota, L. Kloene, C. Empel, S. Murarka , and R. M. Koenigs Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2025, 64, e . Light Harvesting Complex II Resists Non-Bilayer Lipid-Induced Polymorphism in Plant Thylakoid Membranes via Lipid Redistribution, Avinash Garg and Ananya Debnath, The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters. 2024. Copper-Photoredox-Catalyzed Divergent Strategy for the Site-selective Arylation and Alkylation of Glycines and peptides. P. Meher, M. S. Prasad, K. R. Thombare, and S. Murarka ACS Catal. 2024, 14, . Bench-Stable Low-Valent Chromium Catalysts for Hydrogenation of CO2, Bicarbonate, and Inorganic Carbonates to Formate. Singh T.; Gutal A.; Regina A.; Banerjee A.; Paranjothy M.; Chakraborty S.; ACS Catal. 2024, 14, . DOI: 10.1021 acscatal.4c04492 Designing a Phenalenyl-based Dinuclear Ni II Complex: An Electrocatalyst with Two Single Ni Sites for Oxygen Evolution Reaction OER . Kamboj, N. and Metre, R. K. Inorg. Chem., 2024,63, Agarwala, P., Pal, A., Hazra, M. K., Sasmal, D. K., Differential Mg2 Deposition on DNA Holliday Junctions Dictates the Rate and Stability of Conformational Exchange Just accepted in Nanoscale , 2024 Latest Events View all events Mar Departmental seminar by Prof. Rene M Koenigs Jan Navigating PhD and Beyond, IIT Jodhpur Oct In-house symposium, ChemMeet-2024 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 12 Mar :42 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Electrical Engineering The Department of Electrical Engineering primarily focuses on imparting quality education and preparing students to face future technological challenges. The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic and human resource development. The Department is committed to engage in high-quality research by Faculty Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence in teaching. The Department offers B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering with broad range of major and minor specializations and three state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs in Sensors and Internet of Things SIoT , Cyber Physical Systems CPS , and Intelligent Communication Systems ICS . The Department also runs dual degree M.Tech. Ph.D. programs in Intelligent Communication Systems, Sensors and Internet of Things SIoT and Cyber Physical Systems CPS as well as Ph.D. program with a broad range of specializations covering detailed aspects of Microelectronics, Signal Processing, Communication, Microwave Photonics, Power systems, Control systems etc. The Department is also starting a new Executive MTech Program in Intelligent VLSI Systems for working professionals from July 2022. The prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students are encouraged to visit the Academic Programs UG Program, PG Programs and Doctoral Programs page of the Department to know more about the details of courses offered in the department. To know more about the current research themes of the faculty members, the prospective students are encouraged to visit the Research Overview page of the Department. Technology Tracks currently pursued by the Department include emerging and challenging fields that culminate at the intersection of several traditional research areas. Current Technology Tracks Active collaboration is on-going with organizations like Freescale Semiconductors, Global Foundries, AIIMS Jodhpur, DST, DRDO, and ISRO, to name a few. The Department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R D organizations since its inception. Consolidated year-wise cutoffs of last four years Download file: 342 KB Highlights View all highlights Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal Impact Factor 13 Ph.D. student Mr. Prabhanshu Yadav won the Best Paper Award in IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications Systems Dr. Akshay Moudgil Awarded Teaching Excellence Award Latest News View all news 1 Result of Ph.D. Admissions AY 2025-26 Semester II 2 Consolidated year-wise cutoffs of last four years 3 List of candidates shortlisted for Ph.D. Admission, 2nd round, AY 2025-26, Semester-I Latest Event View all events Mar Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR ... Dec Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based Communication Systems Design 21st - 24th December 2025 Feb VLSI Test Workshop : The program is intended for the Faculty, UG, and PG students, research scholars, practicing engineers, and people from R D in the field of VLSI Design. Apr Expert Talk by Prof. H.M. Gupta on: Evolution of ICTs: Historical and Indian Context Apr Invited Talk by Mr. Tapas Nandy: Cycle of Inter-chip Communication: Past-Present-Future Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , , SAIDE SOD SOLA SME , , . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Applicant's Qualifications Faculty Positions IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Applicant's Qualifications a Professor Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout from Class X. At least a minimum of 10 years teaching, research and or industrial experience, of which at least 4 years should be at the level of Associate Professor in IITs, IISc, IIMs, NITIE Mumbai and IISERs or at an equivalent level in any such other Indian or Foreign Institute or University. b Associate Professor Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout from Class X. At least a minimum of 6 years teaching, research and or industrial experience, of which at least 3 years should be at the level of Assistant Professor in a reputed Institute or University. c Assistant Professor Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout from Class X. At least a minimum of 3 years teaching, research and or industrial experience, from the date of defending the Ph.D. Thesis experience while pursuing Ph.D. Program is not be included . Applicants having no or less than 3 years Post-Ph.D. experience will be considered for a contractual appointment of duration less than or equal to 3 years which can be converted into regular position upon review of performance during contract period. The prescribed essential qualifications and experience indicated are bare minimum, and mere possession of the same will not entitle the applicants to be called for interview. Where the number of applications received in response to an advertisement is large, it may not be convenient and or possible for the Institute to conduct interview for all the applicants. In such cases, the Institute may restrict the number of applicants to be called for interview to a reasonable limit, on the basis of qualification and experience higher than that of the minimum prescribed in the advertisement. Therefore applicants should furnish details of all the qualifications and experience possessed in the relevant field, over and above if any the minimum qualification prescribed along with documentary evidences. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Scale of Pay Faculty Positions IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Scale of Pay The following table provides an estimate of the total approximate emoluments of Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur in accordance with Government of Indias 7th Pay Commission order: Assistant Professor Years of Experience after Ph.D. Basic Pay Pay Level Designation 01 years Rs. 70,900 Level 10, Cell 8 Assistant Professor Grade II 12 years Rs. 73,100 Level 11, Cell 3 Assistant Professor Grade II 23 years Rs. 75,300 Level 11, Cell 4 Assistant Professor Grade II 3 years onwards Rs. 1,01,500 Level 12, Cell 1 Assistant Professor Grade I After 3 years at Level 12 Rs. 1,31,400 Level 13A1, Cell 1 Assistant Professor Grade I Associate Professor Designation Basic Pay Pay Level Associate Professor Rs. 1,39,600 Level 13A2, Cell 1 Professor Designation Basic Pay Pay Level Professor Rs. 1,59,100 Level 14A, Cell 1 Apart from Basic Pay as mentioned above , Dearness Allowance, House Rent Allowance in case of Quarter is not allotted by the Institute , and Transportation Allowance will be paid as per the Institutes norms. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

General Instructions to Applicants Faculty Positions IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! General Instructions to Applicants Interested candidates may apply with all the details requested in ONLINE application placed on the website of IIT Jodhpur . Further, Applications are welcomed throughout the year. The applicants are required to apply only through ONLINE process and upload relevant documents accordingly. Applications will be screened for the interview once every three months. Although recruitment will be prioritized on the basis of need in certain areas within a particular discipline, applications may also be considered from exceptional candidates with background in other areas of the specified discipline. Institute adopts reservations policy as per Government of India norms. In case of exceptional candidates, the Institute reserves the right to relax age, qualifications and or experience. Applicants are requested to upload the certificates in required format along with the application form. The Institute reserves the right to fill or not to fill any or all of the advertised posts. Candidates employed in Government and Semi-Government Organizations, Public Sector Enterprises, Autonomous Organizations, University and Educational Institutes must provide No Objection Certificate from their present employer at the time of interview, in case he she is shortlisted for interview. Candidates shortlisted for the Interview will be provided economy class Air-Fare for travel in India by Air India from the starting airport to Jodhpur Airport and return by the shortest route. Reimbursement will be made by bank transfer RTGS in due course of time by the Institute on submission of necessary forms and documents. Application with insufficient information or without relevant supporting documents will not be considered for further processing. The Institute may verify the antecedents or documents submitted by a person at the time of appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents submitted by the candidates are fake or the candidate has a clandestine antecedents or background and has suppressed the said information, then his or her services shall be terminated. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :15 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Bioscience Bioengineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Bioscience Bioengineering The Department of Bioscience Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur, established in 2009 offers a B.Tech. program in Bioengineering, an M.Tech. and M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree programs in Bioscience Bioengineering. Our programs are uniquely designed to inspire innovations in biotechnology, engineering, and medicine from an understanding of biological systems. This capacity building is assuming importance in the present times for providing solutions to societal problems in trans-disciplinary frameworks. A major focus is on neurosciences and neurodegenerative disorders, mechanistic biology, environmental and medical microbiology, computational biology, precision health, and bioprospecting for novel molecules and bio-actives from natural resources of the Thar ecoregion. We also offer a competitive Ph.D. program to inculcate scientific temper, independent thinking, and skillsets for scientific entrepreneurship. We encourage and provide avenues for the participation of bioengineering graduates with diverse engineering disciplines to develop technologies for: Affordable and Smart Healthcare Clean Environment Precision Medicine and Health Sustainable and Affordable Energy Faculties at the department with wide-ranging expertise, conduct fundamental and translational research in focus areas that are contemporary and aligned to major sustainable development goals. We are passionate about research and actively communicate our science through regular outreach programs. Message from the Head of the Department Assoc. Prof. Neha Jain Acting Head BSBE Email: Phone: Bioscience and Bioengineering are pivotal to India's growth. driving innovation and advancing technology in healthcare. Agriculture and environmental sustainability. The Department of Bioscience Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur plays a key role in implementing diverse advanced biological research areas within these fields. with a strong focus on fostering research and development R D and entrepreneurship. By offering a multidisciplinary platform that integrates cutting-edge research in drug discovery, genomics, and affordable and integrative precision healthcare solutions. Big Data Biology and bioinformatics. In addition. The department actively promotes entrepreneurship by providing incubation support, facilitating industry collaborations, and encouraging the growth of startup ventures in biosciences. With access to advanced research facilities and guidance from expert faculty members, students can transform their ideas into practical, marketable solutions, benefiting industries such as healthcare, agriculture, and biomanufacturing. BSBE Department, IIT Jodhpur, emphasizes interdisciplinary research in the near future, which may also align with national initiatives like the BioE3 policy to promote R D, commercialization, and the establishment of bioeconomy hubs. The curriculum is thoughtfully designed to meet the diverse aspirations of students entering the fields of biosciences and bioengineering. This approach not only strengthens the academic peers ecosystem but also creates employment opportunities and enhances societal well-being. Highlights View all highlights Dr. Priyanka Singh has won the prestigious and competitive BRNS-Young Scientist Research Award from the Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India. Congratulations! Dr. Meenu Chhabra and team publishes work on performance evaluation of a photosynthetic microbial fuel cell PMFC using Chlamydomonas reinhardtii at cathode. Congratulations! Dr. Priyanka Singh Selected for INYAS 2025 has been selected for membership in the Indian National Young Academy of Science INYAS Announcement View all announcement 1. Ph.D. admission result AY 2025-26 Semester II 2. Shortlisted Candidates for PhD Admission AY 2025-26, Spring session, Sem-II 3. M.Tech BSBE candidates provisionally shortlisted for admission ,,, 4. Ph.D. BSBE candidates provisionally shortlisted for admission.. Events View all events Jul DESIGNS - Desert EcoSystem Innovations Guided by Natural Selection 31st July 2021 9.30 am Feb International Conference on Bioengineering Solutions for Healthcare, Food, Energy Environment 9-10 April 2021 Feb BSBE Lecture Series Dr. G. Arunkumar 4.00 pm Genomics in Healthcare Services Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :27 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Chemistry IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to Department of Chemistry Head's Message A warm welcome to the Department of Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur, which was established in 2015. Since the inception, the department has taken major strides forward in teaching, research and technology development. Our department offers a variety of academic programs including M.Sc. 2 Years , M.Sc. Chemistry -M.Tech. Materials Engineering with Specialization, BS in Chemistry with Specialization 4 years , and Ph.D. programs. We also provide core and elective courses in chemistry and related fields for undergraduate B.Tech. engineering students. The department offers Chemistry courses for 4-year Integrated B.Sc.-B.Ed. Program ITEP , which is in alignment with NEP 2020 to support teacher preparation and foster professional development. Besides teaching, the Department is striving to be acknowledged for excellence in research and technology. Our goal is to foster an environment where everyone can thrive, reach their full potential, and contribute to cutting-edge scientific advancements. We have the latest state of the art basic teaching laboratories and several thematic research laboratories. Our current faculty strength is 19 and they are carrying out research activities in all major areas of chemical sciences, namely, organic synthesis and catalysis, chemical biology, main group chemistry and organometallics, nanomaterials, spectroscopy and chemical dynamics, biophysical chemistry and computational chemistry. The cutting-edge research in the thrust areas by our faculty members are published in international peer-reviewed journals of well-repute. In short IIT Jodhpur Chemistry department is where Chemistry meets Technology through Collaboration, Communication and Cooperation. I encourage the future aspirants to get enrolled at IIT Jodhpur and wish you all the very best in your future endeavours. Thank you. The thrust areas in which research is being actively carried are given below. Quick Links Ph.D Admission January 2026 Apply Now Course Type For Online Registration Of M.Sc. Program 470 KB LHB Booking CDIF Equipment Booking Department Seminar Hall Booking External users: sample analysis services 9.8 MB Latest News View all news Samapika Sahu, a research scholar under the supervision of Prof. Ananya Debnath, has been awarded Third Prize in the Chemical Sciences category at the SARANSH Thesis Competition Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry RSC Highlights View all highlights C-H alkylation of heterocycles via light-mediated palladium catalysis. S. Senapati, S. K. Hota, L. Kloene, C. Empel, S. Murarka , and R. M. Koenigs Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2025, 64, e . Light Harvesting Complex II Resists Non-Bilayer Lipid-Induced Polymorphism in Plant Thylakoid Membranes via Lipid Redistribution, Avinash Garg and Ananya Debnath, The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters. 2024. Copper-Photoredox-Catalyzed Divergent Strategy for the Site-selective Arylation and Alkylation of Glycines and peptides. P. Meher, M. S. Prasad, K. R. Thombare, and S. Murarka ACS Catal. 2024, 14, . Bench-Stable Low-Valent Chromium Catalysts for Hydrogenation of CO2, Bicarbonate, and Inorganic Carbonates to Formate. Singh T.; Gutal A.; Regina A.; Banerjee A.; Paranjothy M.; Chakraborty S.; ACS Catal. 2024, 14, . DOI: 10.1021 acscatal.4c04492 Designing a Phenalenyl-based Dinuclear Ni II Complex: An Electrocatalyst with Two Single Ni Sites for Oxygen Evolution Reaction OER . Kamboj, N. and Metre, R. K. Inorg. Chem., 2024,63, Agarwala, P., Pal, A., Hazra, M. K., Sasmal, D. K., Differential Mg2 Deposition on DNA Holliday Junctions Dictates the Rate and Stability of Conformational Exchange Just accepted in Nanoscale , 2024 Latest Events View all events Mar Departmental seminar by Prof. Rene M Koenigs Jan Navigating PhD and Beyond, IIT Jodhpur Oct In-house symposium, ChemMeet-2024 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 12 Mar :42 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Chemical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Department of Chemical Engineering Translation of molecular information into discovery of new products and processes with Industry 4.0 Vision Mission of the Department To become a globally recognized department of chemical engineering through its contribution in emerging and demand-driven areas with multidisciplinary approach. The Department of Chemical Engineering offers under-graduate B.Tech. and post-graduate M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. programs in chemical engineering. Through the academic programs, the department is making a conscious effort to establish itself as a leading institute in the new genre of chemical engineering education. The program involves traditional courses, emerging areas and specialisations such as process engineering intelligence, molecular engineering and sustainability. In line with the new education policy, B.Tech. Chemical Engineering students will have unique opportunity and flexibility for: Minor in a Management b Entrepreneurship c Data Science Five year B.Tech. M.Tech. MBA One year Engineering Innovation opportunity Traditionally, chemical engineering teaching focuses on subjects like material and energy balance, transport phenomena, thermodynamics, mass transfer, heat transfer, fluid mechanics, chemical reaction engineering, numerical analysis, computational systems, biotechnology, petroleum-petrochemicals, polymers and safety engineering. With the advent of the era of Industry 4.0 in chemical companies, artificial intelligence AI , machine learning ML , data analytics, internet of things IoT , molecular engineering, nano-composites; the discipline is being transformed by the incorporation of new emerging technologies and demand-driven areas. The department is keen on collaboration with industry and academia worldwide. At present, Chemical Engineering Department is sharing its expertise with the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation DDWS , Ministry of Jal Shakti; Defence Research and Development Organisation DRDO , Ministry of Defence; International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA etc. Department has signed MoU with the industries for providing consultancy services. Department is also actively involved in Scientific Social Responsibility SSR through Unnat Bharat Abhiyan UBA and other societal initiatives. Department has research interest in core and emerging areas; and is looking for faculty members in different areas of chemical engineering. Prospective candidates are encouraged to visit our recruitment page and apply. Highlights View all Highlights Congratulations to Dr. Vikky Anand, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, for being honored as a Young Associate of INAE for the year 2025. . Congratulations to Prof Pradip Kumar Tewari, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, for honoring with the prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award .. Congratulations to Prof Parag Arvind Deshpande, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, for honoring CSI Sistla Kameswari Young Scientist Award - 2020 .. Latest News View all news 1 Provisionally Selected Candidates for the PhD Program January 2026 Session 2 Selected Candidates for the Interview and Written Exam for Admission to the PhD Jan Workshop: Open source molecular visualization techniques for researchers 4 Admission to Ph.D. Program for Autumn, 2025-26 Latest Events View all events Mar Third edition of Chem-E-Sorption 2026 Nov Expert talk interactive session by Prof Rao R Tummala on 15 11 2023 Oct Expert talk by Prof. Sunil Bhagwat, Director, IISER Pune on 21 10 2023 Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 02 Mar :17 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Civil and Infrastructure Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Civil and Infrastructure Engineering The rapidly urbanizing society and increasing quality of life demand reliable and intelligent infrastructure systems which are capable of catering to the societal needs at different scales from an individual to the community level.Consequently, the civil and infrastructure industry has undergone profound changes and is constantly evolving. However, the new-age designs and innovations in the civil and infrastructure industry can only be driven by a group of engineering graduates having multidisciplinary training and a sound understanding of emerging technologies. The Department of Civiland Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur esatablished in January 2020. We started academics programs in the academic year . The department offers unique programs that incorporate and integrate the elements of conventional civil engineering with advanced transformative technologies such as artificial intelligence AI , cyber-physical-systems CPS , digital twins DT , and automated management and information systems. Additionally, a major thrust is also planned on the design, implementation, and maintenance of large-scale integrated infrastructure systems across different domains. The focus areas of the department are : Energy and Environment Building Sciences, Safety, and Services Applications of AI, IoT and CPS in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Smart and Integrated Infrastructure Urban Architecture and Planning Construction Technology and Management Transportation Engineering Structural Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Water resources Engineering Engineering Geology Vision The Department strives to be an internationally renowned centre of excellence in education, research, and innovation with a major focus on sustainability and digitalization of infrastructure. Missions Develop unique courses in the field of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering through advanced UG and PG programs with a multidisciplinary perspective. Establish high quality teaching and research facilities in the areas of smart, resilient, and sustainable infrastructure engineering to foster the needs of society. Promote consilient research through application of AI ML, cyber-physical-systems, digital twin and advanced visualization in the areas of Energy, Environment, Transportation, and Construction. Promote innovative and entrepreneurial activities through intellectual property generation and transfer. Nurture the potential of students to become future leaders in the Civil Engineering industry for leadership achievements, scientific breakthroughs and social welfare. Quick Access Department Brochure 5.1 MB Academic Calendar IITJ at a Glance 2024 English IITJ at a Glance 2024 Hindi Highlights View all highlights Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Hydrodynamics of turbulent flow in channels with submerged flexible vegetation canopy in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Is Congratulations to Dr. Sreejith Krishnan for publishing a research article titled Co-calcination of kaolinitic clay and green liquor dregs to produce supplementary cementitious materials in Journal Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Effects of U-burrow bioirrigation on turbulence characteristics in Journal of Hydraulic Research Congratulations to Mr. Abhishek Jain and his supervisor, Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, and Co-Supervisor Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury for publishing an article titled Comparative efficacy of raw and modified Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Shallow water hydrodynamics: Surge propagation and sill-controlled flows in Physics of Fluids Vol.36, Issue 12 Congratulations to Mr. Shahiq Ahmad Wani and his supervisor, Dr. Ranju Mohan, for publishing an article titled Digital payment adoption in public transportation: Mediating role of mode choice segment Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled The universal two-thirds law of pipeline scour in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4 Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled Hydrodynamics of a rigid submerged vegetated flow in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4 News Newsletter View all news 1 Ph.D. Admissions Result AY 2025-26 Semester II Dec Shortlisted Candidates for written Test and or Interview of Ph.D. Program AY 2025-26 sem II 3 Ph.D. Admission Re-open Announcement 4 List of candidates Provisionally Shortlisted for M.Tech-Part Time Online Program Bridge Engineering 5 Result of Ph.D. Admissions Second Round, AY 2025-26 Semester I July 2025 Latest Events View all events Mar One-day workshop on Sustainability of Cement and Concrete in the Indian Context Jul Congratulations Dr. Bhupendra for SERB International Research Experience SIRE for the year Jan A Indo-UK workshop on Design of Foundation Systems for Offshore Wind Turbines - Indian Perspective Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 09 Mar :58 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Computer Science Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Computer Science Engineering Computer Science and Engineering, today, plays a major role in transforming every aspect of human life - in addressing social challenges and catalyzing the ongoing wave of the industrial revolution. The department is driven by its commitment to excel in next generation technology development and research. Our mission is to strengthen industry-academia collaborations and prepare our students to contribute to multi-disciplinary projects and R D for solving problems of national interest. Vision To be among the top 10 departments in terms of research contributions, practical impact, and applications of Computer Science and Engineering in the country in the next 3 years, and internationally well known in some focused areas in the next 5 years. Some of our missions are to achieve excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subject for innovative discoveries; develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating; and develop and support the notion of computing for all across disciplines at the institute. Mission Our missions are to achieve excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subject for innovative discoveries; develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating; and develop and support the notion of computing for all across disciplines at the institute. M1 Achieving excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subjects for innovative discoveries. M2 Develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating within the institute, as well by means of international, national and regional institutes. The collaborations may be fostered by research visits, collaborative projects, joint thesis, internship guidance, research mentoring etc. M3 Develop and support the notion of computing for all across disciplines at the institute. M4 Embracing shared dialogue across disciplines and encouraging experiential learning to redefine the contours of traditional Computer Science teaching and learning. Be one of the leading departments in the country for hybrid CSE education. M5 Define and solve real-world problems in collaboration with industry, and develop industry- connect by means of research grants consultancies, and collaborative projects. Develop Start-up ecosystem in emerging areas of computing in collaboration with other departments at IIT Jodhpur. M6 Dissemination of knowledge without physical boundaries, i.e. classroom, online and other modes of teaching, to create a workforce which is ready to ethically solve technological challenges of the next generation. M7 Provide thought leadership in public policy and ethics of emerging computing technologies towards building an equitable and ethical society. News Events View all news 1 Dr. Debasis Das received the DST-NSF Project Award 2025, National Science Foundation NSF , USA, and the Department of Science and Technology DST of India. 2 Dr. Debasis Das received NSTC Research Award-2025, National Science and Technology Council NSTC , Taiwan, National Sun Yat-sen University NSYSU , Taiwan. 3 Swapnil Thatte, Paromita Banerjee, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, Bhanu Duggal, Angshuman Paul submitted an Indian patent on MFA-U-Net: U-Net with Multi-level Feature Aggregation for Scale-free Medical Image Segmentation funded by TiH iHub Drishti. Highlights View all highlights PatientVLM Meets DocVLM: Pre-Consultation Dialogue Between Vision-Language Models for Efficient Diagnosis, AAAI 2026:K Lokesh, Uday Agarwal, Abhirama Subramanyam Penamakuri, Apoorva Challa, Shreya K G Temporal Object-Aware Vision Transformer for Few-Shot Video Object Detection, AAAI 2026: Yogesh Kumar, Anand Mishra DBCoreset: A Density-based Coreset Algorithm for Computationally Efficient Chest X-ray Diagnosis, The 2026 IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging ISBI : Jayant Mahawar, Angshuman Paul Announcements View all announcements 1 Ph.D. Admission Result AY 2025-26 SEMESTER II 2 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II 3 List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for admission to the PhD program July 2025 PDF 4 Provisionally shortlisted and waitlisted candidates for M.Tech CSE AI July- Rolling Advertisement for admission to Ph.D. Program. Program Details 6 Rolling Advertisement for faculty positions. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 20 Feb :14 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Electrical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Electrical Engineering The Department of Electrical Engineering primarily focuses on imparting quality education and preparing students to face future technological challenges. The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic and human resource development. The Department is committed to engage in high-quality research by Faculty Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence in teaching. The Department offers B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering with broad range of major and minor specializations and three state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs in Sensors and Internet of Things SIoT , Cyber Physical Systems CPS , and Intelligent Communication Systems ICS . The Department also runs dual degree M.Tech. Ph.D. programs in Intelligent Communication Systems, Sensors and Internet of Things SIoT and Cyber Physical Systems CPS as well as Ph.D. program with a broad range of specializations covering detailed aspects of Microelectronics, Signal Processing, Communication, Microwave Photonics, Power systems, Control systems etc. The Department is also starting a new Executive MTech Program in Intelligent VLSI Systems for working professionals from July 2022. The prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students are encouraged to visit the Academic Programs UG Program, PG Programs and Doctoral Programs page of the Department to know more about the details of courses offered in the department. To know more about the current research themes of the faculty members, the prospective students are encouraged to visit the Research Overview page of the Department. Technology Tracks currently pursued by the Department include emerging and challenging fields that culminate at the intersection of several traditional research areas. Current Technology Tracks Active collaboration is on-going with organizations like Freescale Semiconductors, Global Foundries, AIIMS Jodhpur, DST, DRDO, and ISRO, to name a few. The Department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R D organizations since its inception. Consolidated year-wise cutoffs of last four years Download file: 342 KB Highlights View all highlights Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal Impact Factor 13 Ph.D. student Mr. Prabhanshu Yadav won the Best Paper Award in IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications Systems Dr. Akshay Moudgil Awarded Teaching Excellence Award Latest News View all news 1 Result of Ph.D. Admissions AY 2025-26 Semester II 2 Consolidated year-wise cutoffs of last four years 3 List of candidates shortlisted for Ph.D. Admission, 2nd round, AY 2025-26, Semester-I Latest Event View all events Mar Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR ... Dec Skill Development Program on MATLAB Simulink and Software-Defined Radio SDR -Based Communication Systems Design 21st - 24th December 2025 Feb VLSI Test Workshop : The program is intended for the Faculty, UG, and PG students, research scholars, practicing engineers, and people from R D in the field of VLSI Design. Apr Expert Talk by Prof. H.M. Gupta on: Evolution of ICTs: Historical and Indian Context Apr Invited Talk by Mr. Tapas Nandy: Cycle of Inter-chip Communication: Past-Present-Future Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 13 Mar :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Mathematics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Mathematics Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and creates new theories to solve real-world challenging problems. Our department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods to model such situations that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering, and basic sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Algebra, Mathematical Physics, Scientific Computation, Numerical Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Reliability Theory, Applied Probability. We are excited to offer high-quality programs at postgraduate level for students who wish to apply math to science or engineering such as a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences. We also offer an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational Sciences and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics to those who wish to earn a deeper understanding of pure and applied Mathematics. Workshop on LEAN List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II of th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO -2025 From the Head of the Department Welcome to the Department of Mathematics!! The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to advancing the fields of pure mathematics, applied mathematics and statistics. Our vision is to emphasize both the fundamental principles of core mathematics and the foundational concepts essential for analyzing key principles applied in cutting-edge technologies. Since its establishment, the department has been actively engaged in research across various critical areas of mathematics and computing. The department also aimed to explore modern aspects of mathematics coupled with computational capabilities to develop a workforce specialized in mathematical aspects of key technologies. With this inclination, the department initiated academic programs to address the mathematical needs of both industry and academia. Currently, we offer various programmes, namely, a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences.... Read More: Head Message Latest Events View all Events Feb Research seminar by Dr Abhishek Kumar Singh on Feb 23, 2026 Jan Invited talk by Prof. Basant Lal Sharma on 27 January 2026 at 12PM Jan PhD Thesis Defense of Ms. Sushmita Yadav on 15 January 2026 at 03:00 PM Announcement View all announcement 1 Ph.D. Admission Results Semester-II, AY Merit List of Provisionally Shortlisted Candidates for Ph.D. Admission... 3 List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II.... Latest News View all news Workshop on LEAN The Department of Mathematics is organizing an introductoryworkshop on the Lean proof assistant from 26th to 28th February. 5th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO- th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization ICNAAO-2025 AFS-I - Annual Foundation School - I 2024 IIT Jodhpur AFS-I - Annual Foundation School - I 2024 IIT Jodhpur Highlights View all Highlights Nonlinear coupled-mode framework for coupled systems: From exact Hamiltonian models to improved reduced-order formulations General Casorati inequalities and implications for Riemannian maps and Riemannian submersions Congratulation to Dr Kiran Meena for Published of research paper Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 26 Feb :59 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Mechanical Engineering IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to the Department of Mechanical Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is devoted to quality engineering education and pursuits the excellence in research. It is dedicated to preparing students to face the emerging challenges faced by society. The vision of the Department is to translate its research and to innovate in pedagogy to enable ignited young minds to find technological solutions for upcoming challenges. The Department offers B. Tech. M. Tech. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Design, and Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence AI , Internet of things IoT , Smart Healthcare, and Cyber-Physical Systems CPS . At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are educated in a way not only to adapt but to define direct change. This is reflected in the portfolio of the current activities of the Department. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas of energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor dynamics, nanomaterials, biomechanics, bio-inspired thermo-fluids, fluid-structure interaction, etc. to name a few. Additionally, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts like smart manufacturing, Industry 4.O, Smart scientific computing techniques, high-performance computing, applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, sensors, and IoT as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring mechanical engineering know-how. Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on experience, the Department intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills. The department has active collaborations with AIIMS Jodhpur, General Electric, Thermax, DRDO, ISRO, TCS Innovation Lab, TVS Motor Company to name a few. The department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R D organizations since its inception. Technology Tracks Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0 Multiscale Manufacturing Processing of Novel Materials Fluid Thermal System Design Multiphase Flows Energy and Sustainability Solid Mechanics and Design Vibration and Acoustics Robotics and Mobility Systems Aerodynamics Various Tracks Mechanical Engineering Building Latest News View all news List of shortlisted candidates for the written test interview for PhD, AY 2025-26 Semester II Jan 2026 The Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, invites applications for the PhD program for the semester commencing in July 2025 Application deadline 26 June 2025 List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and Interview for M.Tech. in Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies Admissions Under Different Categories Highlights View all highlights Thermofluids Engineering The Thermofluids Engineering division focuses on research in fluid dynamics, heat transfer, energy systems, multiphase flow... Mechanical Design The Mechanical Design section focuses on cutting-edge research and development in the following research areas... Manufacturing The Manufacturing section focuses on innovative research and technological advancements in the following research areas... Latest Events View all events Jul AIR 2025 Advances in Robotics 7th International Conference of The Robotics Society Dec ISME International Conference on Recent Advances in Mechanical Engineering Dec RAISE-2024 Recent Advances in Sustainable Energy Dec FMFP-2023 Conference: The 10th International and 50th National Conference Dec The 28th National and 6th International IHMTC-2025 Conference Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :34 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

Physics IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The Department of Physics The subject of Physics is inherently a natural science subject based on strong theoretical foundations and experimental findings. The subject closely intersects with almost all the branches of engineering and the current research activities of physics across the world made a huge impact on new, advanced, and emerging technologies. Keeping these facts into consideration, our Department is committed to imparting high-quality education based on a strong academic curriculum comprising elements of theoretical concepts, laboratory experiments, and most importantly hands-on experiments. The graduates of the Department are expected to have deep insight into the domain of Physics together with a strong bent of mind to pursue cutting-edge research and translate it into technology. We offer a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Our 4 Year BS in Physics with specialization is a technology-oriented science program and offers specialization in physics-based emerging technology domains. The program also has the flexibility to convert into a 5 Year BS M.Tech. dual degree course. At the postgraduate level, we have four-degree programs viz. M.Sc. 2 years , M.Sc.-M.Tech Dual Degree in Physics and Materials Engineering. The dual degree program also has additional two specializations namely Functional Materials and Computational Materials Engineering. Finally, our Ph.D. program empowers scholars to pursue research in various domains. Research Areas The department hasa very good blend of highly qualified young and experienced faculty members in the areas of advanced physics. The department is also equipped with a number of thematic laboratories which enable the students to carry out high-end and impactful theoretical and applied research in the following focus areas: Research Areas High Energy Physics and Astrophysics Theoretical research in domains; Flavour physics, Astrophysics, Particle physics, Cosmology, and Dark matter and Dark energy. Experimental research in flavor physics with the Belle II Experiment. Quantum Physics Open Quantum Systems, Theoretical and Experimental aspects of Quantum Optics Quantum Information, Quantum Field Theory, Quantum Statistical Mechanics and Quantum Cosmology. Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Group Experimental and Theoretical Research on Molecular electronics, Organic electronics, Cold Plasma Technologies and applications, Energy Storage, Solar cells, Light emitting diodes, Solar water splitting, Soft Matters, Statistical Physics, Computational Physics, Multiscale Modelling, Phase ordering dynamics, Glasses, Amorphous solids, Polymers and Solid Electrolyte materials, Physics of Living Matter, Active Matter Physics, Functional Materials, Materials Design and Engineering, Nanomagnetism and Multiferroics. Optics and Photonics Theoretical and Experimental Research in Nano Photonics, Light in disordered media, Ultrafast Optics, Nonlinear Optics, Topological Singularities, Specially Optical Fibers, Photonic sensors, Time Dynamic systems, Terahertz generation and application, Transient and Steady-state Spectroscopy, Bound state in the continuum, Disorder Photons and Light Matter Interaction and Ceramic materials for high energy laser applications. Candidates interested in pursuing Ph.D., please go through the Research groups and visit the individual faculty's home pages . The application can be submitted with this link . Infrastructure The department is equipped with high-end research equipment which includes SQUID magnetometer, Physical Property Measurement Systems PPMS , Raman Spectrometer, and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope STM besides a host of other advanced characterization equipment which is available at the Centre for Research Development of Scientific Instruments CRDSI . Collaborations The department is having close collaboration with a number of National and International agencies including DRDO, ISRO, DAE, CSIR, DST, and SERB. Department Faculties also have collaborations with various Institutes of National and International repute, namely TIFR, IIT Bombay, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT BHU, Central University of Rajasthan, University of Montreal, Canada, University of Warsaw Poland, Brookhaven National Laboratory USA, ETH Zurich Switzerland, IMEM Parma Italy, INFN Turino, Italy, CMU Pittsburgh USA, Belle II KEK Japan etc. Our Social Media Connect Contact Numbers for New Students for any queries regarding registration, accessing facilities etc.. Phone Numbers: Office of Physics Highlights View all highlights Prof. Ram Prakash from the Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur has been elected as the President of the Plasma Science Society of India 20262028 Mr.Shubham Chamola has received the prestigious Commonwealth Fellowship to work at the University of Cambridge, UK for a duration of one year Nov 2024-Oct 2025 Dr. Yogeshwar Nath Mishra has co-invented the Worlds fastest single-shot wide-field microscope with his collaborators at NASA-Caltech in USA and FAU in Germany. They published their work in the journ Jitendra Yadav has received the Galileo Galilei Poster Award at the International Symposium on Beyond Li-ion Batteries held in Padova, Italy Sept 1-6, 2024 . Ph.D. students, Sipra Mohapatra and Hema Teherpuria, have been awarded the prestigious APS travel grant and Best Poster award for HEMA at CCP2024 Our PhD student Miss Surbhi Ramawat has received the best poster award with a cash prize of 250 - Euro in one of the globally renowned conference on thermoelectric materials. Latest News View all news 1 Ph.D. Admissions in Physics AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II DEC List of Candidates for Ph.D. Admission - Academic Year Semester I 3 List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD Admission AY 2025-26, Department of Physics Seminars Meetings View all events Feb Diving Deep into Physics Seminar Series : Quantum Superposition, Entanglement, and Applications by Prof. Natthi Lal.. Jan Departmental Seminar : Thin film devices on conventional and green substrates by Dr. Deepa Bhatt, NOI Techpark, Free Univ.. Jan Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: From Empirical to Machine Learning Potentials: Modeling Liqu.. Dec Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: 3.6m DOT and Energetic Cosmic Transients by Dr. Shashi Bhushan Pandey.. Nov Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: The amazing world of gravitational wave from binary neutron star merger by Prof. Ritam.. Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 27 Feb :26 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science SAIDE News View All news 1. Mr. Vishal Rathi received Best Paper Award at AIR Prime Minister's Early Career Research Grant PM ECRG from the Anusandhan National... 3 List of provisionally selected candidates for PhD admission for Academic Year 2024-25... Events View all events Feb Hands-On Workshop on Recent Trends in Generative AI Models and Their Applications Nov Incomplete Information and Matching of Likes A Mechanism Design Approach Nov Sun Pharma Science Foundation National Symposium on ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN... Key Functionaries Anil Kumar Tiwari Head SAIDE Professor Electrical Engineering Student Life at SAIDE Student life at SAIDE is vibrant and enriching, offering a perfect blend of academic learning and extracurricular activities. With a focus on holistic development, the institute provides numerous opportunities for students to explore their interests and talents beyond the classroom. The institute also emphasizes the importance of community service and social responsibility, encouraging students to engage in various outreach programs and initiatives that benefit society. Read More: Student Life at SAIDE Internal Reserve Room View Bookings Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 28 Jan :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

School of Design IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome To The School of Design The School of Design at the Indian Institute of Technology IIT Jodhpur welcomes you into its esteemed community of creative minds and problem solvers. While you embark on this creative journey, prepare to engage in dynamic discourse, challenge paradigms, and collaborate with faculty and peers, forging new frontiers in design and its application. We have been inspired by a collective vision to establish a school that goes beyond conventional problem-solving through design, fostering a culture of innovation, sustainability, and consultancy. We aim to create an ecosystem where creativity converges with purpose, giving rise to groundbreaking design solutions that address contemporary challenges. Academic Programs The School of Design at IIT Jodhpur offers a first-of-its-kind program in any IIT, the MDes in XR Design will address the growing need of the industry to create useful, engaging, and socially relevant experiences that extend the real world or live entirely in the virtual, in areas such as healthcare, entertainment, and education. XR Design Program: Immerse yourself in the intersection of imagination, technology, and impact with the Extended Reality XR Design program at IIT Jodhpur. This cutting-edge program prepares you to become a pioneer in the dynamic world of Virtual Reality VR , Augmented Reality AR , and Mixed Reality MR design. Dive into crafting immersive experiences that push the boundaries of user engagement and address real-world challenges. The MDes in XR Design program's curriculum focuses on hands-on learning, equipping students with: Technical mastery: Gain expertise in VR AR MR design and development tools, 3D modelling and animation, user interface design, and more. Design thinking: Develop the skills to empathize with users, identify needs, and iterate on innovative solutions. Storytelling and narrative design: Craft captivating narratives that resonate with audiences and leave a lasting impact. Collaborative spirit: Work alongside peers and faculty, including prominent XR figures, to bring your ideas to life through collaborative projects. Discover the boundless potential of XR Design. From creating virtual training simulations to designing interactive art installations and revolutionizing retail with AR experiences, the opportunities are vast. XR Design extends beyond technology; it involves understanding its profound human impact. Through our program, you'll learn to navigate ethical considerations, champion accessibility, and empower users from diverse backgrounds, ensuring meaningful engagement and lasting impact. Embark on this transformative journey and become a visionary leader in the burgeoning world of XR Design. School of Design at IIT Jodhpur awaits your creativity and passion to shape the future of immersive experiences. The Design Pod View All Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 06 Mar :42 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

School of Liberal Arts IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to The School of Liberal Arts Vision The vision of the School of Liberal Arts is to emerge as a forerunner in Liberal Arts education. We believe in a novel, open, futuristic, trans-disciplinary, and inclusive liberal humanist approach, that not only engages with the human, the non-human, and the planetary, but also recognizes and amplifies the diverse possibilities and potentials of human-technology interfaces as both agents and sites for social change SoLA Vision Document, Annexure 1, pg. 17 . The SoLA will have a broader vision, seeking to break the silos created by disciplinary boundaries and reimagining the educational structure. Through an open approach it will strive to equip and enable students for the challenge of the future, while turning them into global citizens and able thinkers with an awareness of the needs and demands of contemporary society. The goals of SoLA will include: To engage in foundational as well as socially relevant and benevolent research in the areas of Liberal Arts, to aid and guide the technologies developed to bring solutions for constructive Read More Mission The SoLA at IIT Jodhpur has been founded on the principles that quality education in the Liberal Arts is a primary requisite for solving the multidimensional challenges that our current and future generations face. In operationalizing this core principle, the research, pedagogy, and outreach at the SoLA will be life-cantered with a particular emphasis on recognizing and amplifying disciplinary intersections in the Creative Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences and Technologies. To achieve this goal, the SoLA will have the following objectives: Message From The Head The School of Liberal Arts SoLA at IIT Jodhpur, established in 2022, evolved from the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences HSS , which had its inception in the year 2015. This is a critical milestone for a young department and represents our consistent improvement in academics and research. In accordance with the future-driven vision of IIT Jodhpur, the change in name signifies a change in orientation. The newly established School promotes the idea of transformation by breaking the traditional silos, and through multidisciplinary, transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary means, making an active intervention that will strengthen the existing research ecosystem of the institute. Through the courses and programs offered by our School, we encourage students to become professionals whose practice and research bridge the gaps between the humanistic, the social, the environmental, and the technological domains. SoLAs flagship program is the two-year MSc in Computational Social Sciences CSS with a specialization in two tracks Computational Economics and Computational Sociology. To promote a more nuanced dialogue between STEM and social sciences, the school also offers interdisciplinary cross-institute courses for engineering students at undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels. The faculty of our school are distinguished academics, with rich intellectual capital who combine academic excellence with pedagogical innovations that represent their dedication and commitment to the vision of the School and IIT Jodhpur. I invite you to learn more about our School and to be part of our journey as we foster humanitarian values, diversity, inclusiveness, a passion for learning and building a culture of excellence in education and research. Highlights View All 1 The School of Liberal Arts invites applications for its two-year MSc in Computational Social Science CSS programme 2 Latest Announcement of PhD Exam AY-2025-26 for the written test 3 Candidates shortlisted for the written test for the PhD program AY-2025-26 Quick Access Newsletter Student Achievements Admissions Placement Brochure News Events Achievements School of Liberal Arts at IIT Jodhpur congratulates Ms. Saikia and Prof. Sharma on their publication The School of Liberal Arts at IIT Jodhpur congratulates Ms. Saikia and Prof. Sharma on the publication of their paper titled Unveiling the The School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur, congratulates Dr. Kanak Yadav on her publication The School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur, congratulates Dr. Kanak Yadav on the publication of the article The precarious case of the zero-waste School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur, congratulates Dr Alok Ranjan for being invited to join the editorial board of the BMC Health Services Research Journal School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur, congratulates Dr Alok Ranjan for being invited to join the editorial board as an Editorial Board Member of the School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur, congratulates Dr Alok Ranjan on his publication School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur, congratulates Dr Alok Ranjan on publishing the article Assessing the TB Mukt Gram Panchayat Program in School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur, congratulates Dr Alok Ranjan on his publication Dr Alok Ranjan published an article, Indias immobile elderly and universal health coverage: insights from 75th round national sample The Museum Association of India invited Professor Ankita Sharma to deliver an expert lecture The Museum Association of India invited Professor Ankita Sharma to deliver an expert lecture at its Annual General Conference on Experiential and Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 10 Mar :11 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

School of Management Entrepreneurship IIT Jodhpur RedirectToLoginPage !!! Welcome to School of Management Entrepreneurship The School of Management and Entrepreneurship SME at Indian Institute of Technology IIT Jodhpur is a dynamic and forward-thinking school that offers a distinctive blend of technology-driven management education. Established with the aim of integrating technological advancements into the world of business, SME is designed to equip students with the skills needed to navigate the rapidly changing business landscape. At the heart of SME IIT Jodhpur is a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary education, combining the best of both management and technology. The school offers a unique MBA Technology program that goes beyond traditional business education by incorporating a deep understanding of modern technologies such as artificial intelligence AI , data science, blockchain, and digital transformation. This approach ensures that students are well-prepared to face the challenges of a business world increasingly shaped by technological disruptions. The MBA curriculum covers essential management subjects such as operations, marketing, strategy, finance, entrepreneurship, and human resources, while simultaneously introducing students to cutting-edge technological concepts and their applications in business. One of the unique aspects of the SME is its focus on practical, project-based learning. We encourages students to work on real-world problems, engaging with live projects, case studies, and industry collaborations to apply their knowledge. This hands-on approach not only helps in developing critical thinking skills but also prepares students for the complex problem-solving tasks they will encounter in their professional careers. The experiential learning process is further enhanced by opportunities to collaborate with industry leaders, ensuring that students are attuned to the latest trends and challenges in the business world. The school places a strong emphasis on innovation and entrepreneurship, recognizing the growing importance of these areas in todays economy. SME IIT Jodhpur provides students with various platforms to develop their entrepreneurial ideas, including access to incubators, innovation labs, and mentorship from experienced entrepreneurs and industry professionals. By providing the necessary resources and guidance, SME helps budding entrepreneurs transform their ideas into viable business ventures. The faculty at SME IIT Jodhpur consists of experienced professionals and academics with a strong background in both teaching and industry practice. Faculty members at the school are involved in cutting-edge research in areas like digital transformation, innovation ecosystems, human capital management, neuro-marketing, and entrepreneurship in social and community settings. The facultys diverse experience allows them to bring fresh perspectives into the classroom, while their ongoing research keeps them at the forefront of current business trends and technological advancements. By combining core management principles with a strong focus on technology and innovation, SME prepares its students to become leaders in the evolving business world. The emphasis on experiential learning, entrepreneurship, and interdisciplinary research makes SME an ideal destination for those looking to excel in fields where technology, business, and society intersect. With a commitment to shaping future leaders who are not only proficient in management but also driven by innovation and ethical leadership, SME IIT Jodhpur is establishing itself as a premier school in the realm of business education in India. Spotlight Spotlight 1 MBA Admission 2026-28: CAT Cut-off for the Personal Interview 2 MBA 202628 Admissions date extended! 3 MBA 202628 Admissions Open! Important links CCCD IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee Intranet Links Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan India For any comments enquiries feedback, please email the WIM . Last Updated : 18 Mar :44 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , JAWS, NVDA, SAFA, Supernova Window-Eyes, : - NVDA - , , 7 : Windows Vista Windows 7 . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! : A - B - C - D - E - F - G - H - I - J - K - L - M - N - O - P - Q - R - S - T - U - V - W - X - Y - Z - A M.Tech. : XR M.Des. , AY 2026-27 : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : 2019-20 : : : : : : : : : : RCRICE : SURAJ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - - : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : : : RCRICE : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : M.Des. , AY 2026-27 : : : : : : : : : B : : . . : : : : : 2026 : : : .. : .. : .. : . : . : .. : .. : .. : .. : .. : .. : .. : .. : : : : : : : : , : : : C 20 2022 : 2019 : 21 2023 : 21 2023 : 23 2024 : 23 2025 : 25 2024 : Circular : Office of Registrar Contact : , : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 2024 : - : : : : : : : : : : 2025 : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 2026 : : 22 2023 : 22 2025 : : : : : : : : : : ..-. : ... - .. : : : : : : : : : : : -I : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : - : : : : RCRICE : : : : : - - : : 2026 : SURAJ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : . : : : : : : : : D advanced-greywater-treatment-units : : SURAJ - : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : E : : .. - 2025 : : : : : : - : - : : , : : - - : : : : : : : : : : .. : : : : : : : : , : : : : : : : : : : SURAJ : , : : : - : : : : - : : -I : -I -I : - F FTIR : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : ... - .. : : : ..-. : : : - : : : : : : 2026 - - : : - : : : - : : : : : ... - .. : ..-. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - - : : : G : : - : : : - : - : : - : - : : , , : : RCRICE : - : , : , , : , : : , , , : , : , : , : , , : : , : : : , : H : ? : : : : SURAJ : : : - : : : - : : : : : : : : : ? : : : : I : : : : : : 2022 : - , : : : - : : : : : : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : SURAJ - - : : : : . . . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : J : : K - : L : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : M : .. : .. : : : : ... .. : ... : ... -.. : ... : ... : . - .. : .. : .. : .. AY 2026-27 : .. AY 2026-27 : . : . : .- : .. : .. : .. : .. - .. : .. .. : .. : .. : .. : .. : .. : .. : : : : : : , : .. : .. : : : .. : : : : ... : : : : : : : 2025 : : : : : : : : , - , : : .. : .. : : - : : : ..-. : : : : : : .. : : N Notification : Office of Registrar Notification : Office of Registrar : : : : - : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : RCRICE : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : O -I Office Orders : Office of Registrar Orders : : : : : : : : : : : : : - - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : 2026 P People Ph.D. Admission : Chemistry : : WASH : - : - - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : .. : .. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : Q : R Recruitment RTI : : RCRICE : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : , : : : 2023-24 : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : , : : : : : : : : : : S : - : : : : - : : : : : RCRICE : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 2025 : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : , : : : 2.0 : : -- : : : : : : - : : : T Tenders Tenders Announcement : Office of Stores Purchase : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : : : : : - - : .. : : U : SURAJ : : : : : : : - : - : : : : : : : : V IITJ : Visit of Prof. Venkappayya R Desai, Director IIT Dharwad : : : : . : : : : : . : , : , , : : : , : : : : : : : : : : : : : W : : : : ? : : : : : : ? : : : : : X - : : Y Z . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , , , IIT , , , , , , , 1996 , 1999 , , , - , 2001 ; ; . , , , , , , , , , , , - , . - . 520 - , , 16000 24000 . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 17 Oct :44 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , , , , 1. : 2. . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 23 Dec :35 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! : - - - - - - -- - - - - , - - , - , - , , , - , . : : . 2011 , . , , , , 7 . IEEE IEEE , 2022 - , - 2023 - , FLAME -2024, 170 - , 85 , IEEE, ACS . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 24 Dec :07 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! : - - .., , .. , , .. , 10 .. 10 , - , , , 9 . : , , , , , , , , : , , - , - , . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 16 Oct :57 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! Doctor of Philosophy Programs Core Sciences Departments Bioscience Bioengineering Chemistry Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Materials Engineering Physics Schools School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science SAIDE School of Design SOD School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Management Entrepreneurship SME Centres Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETSD Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics CMCE Center for Internet of Things IoT Applications Center for Education Technology CET Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy Center for Technology Foresight and Policy CTFP IDRPs IDRCs Digital Humanities Quantum Information Computation Robotics Mobility Systems Smart Healthcare Space Science Technologies Master of Technology Programs M.Tech. Bioscience Bioengineering M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems M.Tech. Communication Systems M.Tech. Microelectronics and VLSI M.Tech. Data and Computational Sciences M.Tech. Advanced Manufacturing and Design M.Tech. Thermofluids Engineering M.Tech. Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies M.Tech. Materials Engineering M.Tech. Chemical Engineering M.Tech. Environmental Engineering M.Tech. Energy Infrastructure M.Tech. Bridge Engineering M.Tech. Augmented and Virtual Reality M.Tech. Robotics M.Tech. Quantum Technologies Master of Science Programs M.Sc. Chemistry M.Sc. Mathematics M.Sc. Physics M.Sc. Digital Humanities M.Sc. Computational Social Science MS by Research Programs M.S. by Research Next Generation AI M.S. by Research Computational Economics M.S. by Research Intelligent Infrastructure M.S. by Research Precision Health Integrative Medicine . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 10 Mar :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! JEE Advanced JEE Advance Brochure GATE JAM M.Sc. M.TECH. Ph.D. ITEP STUDY IN INDIA SII PMRF ICCR FELLOWSHIP GIAN M.S. By Research OMICS MBA Direct Admission Portal for International Student ASEAN . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! DIA , , , , , 42U , , DIA Verticals , , - , , - . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 10 Mar :16 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , 15 2017 , , -- - , : 24 x 7 , , , , , , , , 24 x7 , , , - , 24 x7 , - , 01 ACLS 01 BLS , , , , , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , - , , , , , , , , , , , 24 7 : . . . . . , , 3:30 7:00 , : : : 1 : 10598KB 2 : 14 KB . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 28 Jan :26 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! 2018 , , - - 93 , 111 112, , 500 , , , , , - , : - . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 23 Feb :28 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , - , , : a , , , , ; , ; ; ; , ; , ; ; , , , b , ; ; , ; ; , , , . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 04 Feb :49 AM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , , , , :- : , , , ; , , , , : - : , , , , : ; :- , , , - 7 , , , , DOSA . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Feb :18 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! , , : Departments Bioscience Bioengineering Chemistry Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Engineering Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Physics Engineering Schools School of Artificial Intelligence Data Science SAIDE School of Design SOD School of Liberal Arts SOLA School of Management Entrepreneurship SME Centres Center for Education Technology for Education CETE Center for Technology Foresight and Policys CTFP Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development CETSD IDRPs IDRCs Centre for AIoT and Application Space Technology Digital Humanities Robotics Mobility Systems Quantum Information and Computation IITJ-AIIMSJ Medical Technologies Center Centre for Digital Health . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

-- RedirectToLoginPage !!! -- , , , -- IoT SAIDE . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! - - , IoT SAIDE RCRICE . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

? RedirectToLoginPage !!! ? : - - , , -- : : , ; : , ; : , ; : 2014 , .. - , , , .. , , .7 , !! , , : , , , , , , . , , , , , , , , , , , : ; 1,500 , , 12 , 1.5 ; ; 3 3 ; ; 10,000 ; . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

. . . RedirectToLoginPage !!! . . . , . . . , . . . 2008 , , , . . . . . . -- - , , . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! Sr. No. Description 1 . , IETE - FIETE D : 5 . Archive . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! - - : - - 110, . , : - , , TEM , EMCD TEM DPC TEM DPC , DPC , - , , , - -- . TEM EF-DPC - , DPC 2. LaMnAsO Mn EF-DPC, , Sx, Sy, Sz - -- Mn . : : , . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! - : - 2024 15:6122, , : - 3D -, - - 2D 2D , , , 3D 2D - - , - , 2D - - 001 , 3D , 001 3D 2D , 1: vdW , - : - , - , , : . - - 001 - , - , 001 001 -I 001 -II - 110 - , , : . : : 2 , . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward

RedirectToLoginPage !!! 2D : : 2D : . , : . ; , , , , , , , , , , , 2, - , , 2D , , 2D , , 1: 2: : . : : 2D , , . . . - . . . ? CERT- 2025 , . . . , .. 62, , , - 342030 , Last Updated : 18 Mar :07 PM RedirectToLoginPage !!! arrow downward